AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
[1] Marissa Jurao and Belen Gardner initially filed their complaint against Belinda 
Geldenhuys and Cherington Place. The compla int alleged discrimination in employment 
on the basis of race, place of origin and colour, contrary to s. 13 of the Human Rights 
Code . 
[2] On August 13, 2013, the complaint was dismi ssed against Cherington Place but it 
continued against Ms. Geldenhuys. Her response  to the complaint was filed on February 
15, 2013. 
[3] On November 12, 2013, a Notice of Hearing was issued and the complaint was 
scheduled to be heard commencing June 18, 2014. 
[4] Since October 13, 2013, Ms. Geldenhuys  has not communicated with, or 
responded to correspondence from the Tribuna l. Such correspondence has routinely been 
returned undelivered. 
[5] Since May 2014, the Tribunal has made seve ral attempts to communicate with Ms. 
Geldenhuys and to serve her w ith documents, in particular, the Notice of the Hearing. 
[6] On June 11, 2014, the Tribunal was provid ed with an Affidavit of Attempted 
Service, sworn by a process server, Mr. P. Di ck. The affidavit deposes that on May 30 and 
June 4, 2014, on the basis of a number of inquiries, Mr. Dick was unable to serve Ms. Geldenhuys. He believes she cannot be person ally served. At no time did Ms. Geldenhuys 
apply to adjourn the hearing. 
[7] It appears that Ms. Geldenhuys has not seen fit to comply with Rule 7 of the 
Tribunal’s Rules of Practice and Procedure :  
Address for delivery 
1. Every participant must provide notice in writing of an address for 
delivery to the tribunal a nd all other participants. 
2014 BCHRT 150 (CanLII)
2 
 Address if lawyer or agent  
2. If a participant is represented by a lawyer or agent, the postal address of 
the lawyer or agent is the participant's address for delivery. 
Change of address  
3. A participant must immediately, in writing, notify the tribunal and other 
participants of a change of a ddress for delivery, and may use the 
Change of Address for Delivery Form (Form 10). 
Deemed delivery  
4. If the Tribunal or another partic ipant delivers a communication to a 
participant's address for delivery under rule 9, that participant is deemed 
to have notice of the communication. 
[8] Ms. Geldenhuys did not appear at 9:20 a.m. on June 18, 2014, the time set for the 
hearing in the Tribunal’s No tice of Hearing and Notice of  Rescheduled Hearing. The 
hearing was postponed for thirty minutes duri ng which time I attempted to contact Ms. 
Geldenhuys by telephone, to no avail. The hear ing then proceeded in the absence of Ms. 
Geldenhuys. 
[9] Ms. Jurao testified on her own behalf  and called two witnesses, Maryann 
Domrique and Marcellina Kelly. Ms. Gardne r testified on her own behalf and called no 
additional witnesses. 
EVIDENCE OF MS. JURAO AND WITNESSES 
[10] Ms. Jurao says she is of Filipino origin and was treated adversely by Ms. 
Geldenhuys, whom she says targeted her on the basis of her race. 
[11] Ms. Jurao immigrated to Canada with her family in 1997. She has worked as a care 
aide, at Cherington Place, a nur sing home, for fourteen years.  Cherington Place provides 
residential care for up to seventy-five elderl y residents, who present with a variety of 
2014 BCHRT 150 (CanLII)
3 
 health issues including Alzheimer’s or dementia, and who are unable to care for 
themselves or to be cared for more independe ntly in their own home s. Cherington Place 
residents require care on a “24/7” basis. Ms.  Jurao’s job was to provide intimate personal 
care to residents of Cherington Place includ ing in such areas as personal hygiene, 
toileting, escorting them for meals,  and feeding. She is a union member. 
[12] Ms. Jurao says Ms. Geldenhuys came to wo rk at Cherington Place in February 
2012, in the position or resident care manage r. She was responsible for day to day 
supervision and management of Cherington Place’s care provision operation. Ms. Jurao 
said that it was “chaotic and stressful” to work with Ms. Geldenhuys whom she says 
“traumatized” the place. She would change po licy at whim and enter residents’ rooms 
unannounced. 
July 13, 2012  
[13] Ms. Jurao says that when Ms. Geldenhuys  began her employment she experienced 
her as prejudiced and against her. On July  13, 2012, at 6:30 a.m., Ms. Jurao was about to 
commence her shift. She was gathered at th e main floor nurse’s station along with the 
night nurse, other care aides, and as many as  eight practicum students. Marcellina Kelly, 
another care aide, was there. Su ch meetings are routine events  at shift changes, to report 
on and debrief any incidents or occurrences which may have taken place on the previous 
shift. 
[14] Ms. Jurao testified that, of the number of  persons assembled, two staff, one of 
whom was herself, were not wearing uniform s. Ms. Jurao testified that uniforms are 
optional, as long as other clean, appropriate at tire is worn. Ms. Jurao says that she was 
dressed in plain clothing. She says that Ms. Geldenhuys pointed  directly at her and said, 
“Marissa, you are not wearing a uniform”, an d added that she could be sent home. Ms. 
Geldenhuys pointed to staff who were wear ing uniforms and to Ms. Jurao’s clothing, 
saying “yours is not”. 
2014 BCHRT 150 (CanLII)
4 
 [15] Ms. Jurao introduced an excerpt from Cherington Place’s parent company’s 
Human Resources Manual en titled “Staff Decorum”, effective May 2006. That manual 
provides at paragraph 1.2 that: 
1.2 Clean, comfortable clothing allowi ng appropriate work movements to 
be worn.  Uniforms are optional. Blue jeans, spandex and tank tops are not acceptable. Walking shorts may be work during summer months. 
Exhibit 4  
[16] Ms. Jurao says she was deeply embarrassed in front of the night nurse, five staff 
and eight students. She says she did not respond out of respect. She wondered why Ms. 
Geldenhuys could not have spoken to her privately. She says the other individual who was not wearing a uniform, was Russian, and she wa s not “picked on”. Ms. Jurao says this was 
the first time this was raised as an issue and that she was the only Filipino. Marcellina 
Kelly confirmed this incident. 
July 27, 2012 
[17] Ms. Jurao says that, on July 22, 2012, she fa inted and had to leav e work and return 
home. On July 23, 2012, Ms. Geldenhuys phoned he r at home to inquire when she would 
be returning to work. Ms. Jurao responded that  she would be back at work on July 27, 
2012. Ms. Jurao says she was trying to be po lite and, as a friendly gesture, told Ms. 
Geldenhuys she herself deserved a holiday. 
[18] On Ms. Jurao’s return to work on July 27, 2012, she was seen in Ms. Geldenhuys’ 
office. Ms. Geldenhuys asked her if she knew a co-worker, a care aide named Felix, who 
was also Filipino. Ms. Jurao only knew this indi vidual from staff “orientation” and that he 
performed volunteer work by singing with Cherington Pl ace’s residents. 
[19] Ms. Jurao testified that Ms. Geldenhuys to ld her she had terminated Felix because 
of his “lies”. Ms. Jurao did not know wh at Ms. Geldenhuys was referring to. Ms. 
Geldenhuys then mentioned two other Filip ino care aides, one of whom had been 
suspended and the other terminated. Ms. Geldenhuys said “Good for you Marissa, I did 
not vendetta you”. Ms. Jurao says she does not know why Ms. Geldenhu ys said this. She 
thinks it meant that she had not fired Ms. Jurao. 
2014 BCHRT 150 (CanLII)
5 
 [20] Ms. Jurao testified that Ms. Geldenhuys al so said “Filipinos are gossipers and I 
don’t know if this is a cultural thing”. 
[21] Ms. Jurao says she was shocked by Ms. Geldenhuys’ “discriminatory” comments. 
After work she told her shop steward about the conversation and was advised not to go 
Ms. Geldenhuys’ office unaccompanied. 
August 21, 2012 
[22] On August 21, 2012, Ms. Jurao was invited by her shop steward “Margaret” to 
attend at Ms. Geldenhuys’ office. She says that Ms. Geldenhuys was upset and started 
“berating” her in front of the shop steward, for having disclosed thei r July 27 conversation 
saying, “I am the boss. I can fire anybody. I do n’t care anymore human rights”. The shop 
steward answered, “Marissa knows about  it”, meaning, “human rights”. 
[23] Ms. Jurao testified that she interpreted this exchange as a warning or threat to fire 
her. She says she felt “demoralized, uncomfo rtable, scrutinized, vulnerable and worried 
about her job security”. 
August 28, 2012 
[24] Ms. Jurao testified that on August 28, 2012, at  6:25 a.m., in front of the night nurse 
and several care aides, including Marcellina Kelly, and nurse Maryanne Domrique, Ms. Geldenhuys said to her, “Marissa, you are not wearing a uniform again, I could send you 
home”. Ms. Jurao responded that she had talked  to the shop steward w ho had told her care 
aides can wear their own clothes instead of uniforms. Ms. Geldenhuys replied that she too 
had spoken to the shop steward and asked why other care aides wore uniforms. Ms. Geldenhuys asked Ms. Jurao how long she had been working at Cherington Place. Ms. 
Jurao said twelve years, and Ms. Geldenhuys said, “You have been here for twelve years 
and you don’t have a uniform”? Ms. Jurao answer ed that she had had lots of uniforms but 
gave them away. Ms. Jurao also asked why sh e was being singled ou t when another care 
aide, Ms. Sharma, was not wearing a uniform . Ms. Jurao says Ms. Geldenhuys did not 
explain and simply said, “I am talking to you Marissa”. 
2014 BCHRT 150 (CanLII)
6 
 [25] Ms. Jurao says she was trembling and felt sick, and unable to work. She asked Ms. 
Gardner, the nurse in charge, for permission to go home and left, but first tried to see a 
doctor. Marcellina Kelly conf irmed this event, as did Ma ryanne Domrique, who wonders 
why only Ms. Jurao was picked on. 
[26] Ms. Jurao says that later, at 10:15 a.m ., Ms. Geldenhuys phoned her at home and 
accused her of abandoning her shift. She said Ms.  Jurao would need to meet with her on 
August 29th. Ms. Jurao says her union advised her not to, and she did not attend.  
[27] Later on August 28, 2013, Ms. Jurao wrote a letter to Cherington’s CEO and its 
Operations Manager, documenting her compla int of repeated humiliation and harassment 
by Ms. Geldenhuys: Exhibit 5. 
[28] On October 15, 2012, Cherington responded, a pologizing for Ms. Jurao’s distress; 
agreeing that uniforms were not mandatory in lie u of other suitable clothing; agreeing that 
she had not abandoned her position on A ugust 28, 2012, and indicating that her 
“allegations of racial stereotyping” had been addressed: Exhibit 6. 
[29] Ms. Jurao has not returned to work since August 28, 2012, for health reasons 
which predated the allegations and incidents she complains of. 
[30] Nevertheless, Ms. Jurao says Ms. Gelde nhuys’ treatment of her traumatized and 
demoralized her. She says she was treated  badly on four occasions during which her 
family’s future was threatened. She lost trust and became nervous. She became socially 
withdrawn from family and friends. She has trouble sleeping and functioning. She 
continues to struggle with her feelings of  powerlessness and confusion. She submitted no 
medical evidence relating to the impact of  Ms. Geldenhuys’ alleged conduct upon her. 
[31] Ms. Jurao seeks the sum of $5,000.00 as compensation for injury to her dignity. 
EVIDENCE OF MS. GARDNER 
[32] Ms. Gardner has been employed by Cheri ngton Place as a registered nurse for 
thirty-four years. She continues to work at the facility. She has, over the years, worked 
closely with many managers.  
2014 BCHRT 150 (CanLII)
7 
 [33] Ms. Gardner alleges Ms. Geldenhuys treate d her in a discriminatory and adverse 
manner. She described Ms. Geldenhuys as a very controlling, stress-inducing manager, 
who was constantly checking up and monitoring everything. 
[34] Ms. Gardner testified that, on August 28, 2012, at 6:15 a.m., Ms. Geldenhuys 
called her into her office by walkie-talkie.  Ms. Gardner thought she was to provide 
updates on the residents. Immediately, Ms. Geldenhuys began saying, “What is wrong 
with you Filipinos”. Ms. Gardner says she wa s shocked and replied “What do you mean?” 
Ms. Geldenhuys responded, “Is it your culture? It is not East Indians, but you Filipinos”. 
Ms. Gardner again sought an explanation. Ms. Gelednhuys said “you Filipinos have 
problems to work”. Ms. Gardner replied, “What problems? Filipinos are good, hardworking people”. Ms. Geldenhuys respond ed “You think so?” a nd Ms. Gardner said 
“I know so”. 
[35] Ms. Gardner testified that Ms. Geldenhuys then asked he r why she used Gardner, 
her married name and asked “What’s your maid en name?” When Ms. Gardner told her her 
Filipino sounding last name, Ms Geldenhuys said “Why don’t you change your name back to that?” Ms. Gardner says she was ve ry insulted and offended by the comment. 
[36] Ms. Gardner also testified that Ms. Ge ldenhuys told her everyone was surprised 
that she had hired a Filipino nurse, just tw o days previous. When Ms. Gardner responded 
that the individual was an excellent nurse, sh e says it seemed li ke Ms. Geldenhuys was 
saying she should not have hired the i ndividual because she is Filipino. 
[37] Ms. Gardner said that Ms. Geldenhuys’ tr eatment of her stressed and demoralized 
her and made her feel devalued, vulnerable, singled out and targeted on the basis of her 
characteristics. She said she was made to feel unwelcome in her workplace of thirty years. She seeks compensation for injury to her dignity. 
ANALYSIS AND DECISION 
[38] Section 13 of the Code  provides: 
(1) A person must not 
2014 BCHRT 150 (CanLII)
8 
 (a) refuse to employ or refuse to continue to employ a person, or 
(b) discriminate against a person regard ing employment or any term or 
condition of employment because of race, colour, ancestry, place 
of origin, political belief, religion, marital status, family status, physical or mental disability, sex, sexual orientation or age of that 
person or because that person has be en convicted of a criminal or 
summary conviction offence that is  unrelated to the employment or 
to the intended employ ment of that person. 
(2) Subsections (1) and (2) do not appl y with respect to a refusal, 
limitation, specification or pref erence based on a bona fide 
occupational requirement. 
[39] The legal burden is on Ms. Jurao and Ms. Gardner to establish, on a balance of 
probabilities, a prima facie case of discrimination. A prima facie case is one which covers 
the allegations made and which, if the allegations are believed, is sufficient to justify a finding in Ms. Jurao’s and Ms. Gardner’s favour ab sent an answer or justification from the 
respondent: Ontario Human Rights Commission and O ’Malley v. Simpso ns-Sears Limited , 
[1985] 2 S.C.R. 526, p. 558. 
[40] In order to establish a prima facie case, Ms. Jurao and Ms. Gardner would have to 
prove that:  
(a) they are members of one or more  of the protected groups against 
whom discrimination is prohibited by the Code;  
(b) they suffered adverse treatment in  regard to their employment; and  
(c) it is reasonable to infer from all the circumstances that their 
membership in the protected group was a factor in the adverse treatment: Moore v. British Columbia  2012 SCC 61. 
[41] It is not necessary the prohibited ground be the sole or primary factor in the 
adverse treatment, provided it is at least a factor: O’Connor v. Town Taxi, 2000 BCHRT 
9, para. 55. 
[42] Further, the Code does not require that there be any intention to discriminate in 
order for there to be a breach of the Code (s. 2). 
[43] It is not disputed that Ms. Jurao and Ms. Gardner are of Filipino origin. That aspect 
of a prima facie  case is accepted and established. 
2014 BCHRT 150 (CanLII)
9 
 [44] In this context, discriminatory acts “can arise from a process of subconscious 
stereotyping as well as from conscious decisi ons”, and thus, the Tribunal “must be alert to 
all stages of the inqui ry for evidence from which such stereotyping might be inferred”: 
Johnson v. Halifax Regional Police Service (2003) , [2003] N.S.H.R.B. I.D. No. 2, 48 
C.H.R.R.D/307 (N.S. Bd. Inq.). 
Ms. Jurao 
[45] I am persuaded by the evidence that, on at least three occasions, July 13, July 27, 
and August 28, 2012, Ms. Jurao was subjected to intimidating, and differential treatment 
by Ms. Geldenhuys, on the basis of her place of or igin. Other staff were not singled out for 
their dress choices on the same occasions. On another occasion, Ms. Geldenhuys directed the slur that Filipino’s are gossipers at Ms. Jurao. 
[46] Ms. Geldenhuys’ conduct embarrassed Ms. Jurao. She felt singled out for 
unjustified criticism on the basis of her r ace or place of origin. On another occasion, 
during which her heritage wa s specifically mentioned or highlighted, Ms. Jurao felt 
threatened in terms of her employment to the point she felt compelled to report to her shop 
steward. 
[47] On August 28, 2012, Ms. Jurao wrote a letter of complaint to her manager in which 
she provided detailed documentation and dates to  support her allegations. In a letter dated 
October 15, 2012, Cherington Place’s Opera tions Manager acknowledged Ms. Jurao’s 
distress and confirmed her “alle gations of racial stereot yping” had been addressed. 
[48] Ms. Jurao testified that Ms. Gelde nhuys’ conduct has left her with ongoing 
difficulties including insomnia and feeling po werless. She also says she has become 
socially withdrawn. She broke down and wept  at several points in  her testimony. Her 
testimony is uncontradicted.  
[49] I find that Ms. Jurao’s race and place of origin were factors in Ms. Geldenhuys’ 
negative treatment of her. Ms. Jurao has established a prima facie  case of discrimination. 
  
2014 BCHRT 150 (CanLII)
10 
 Ms. Gardner 
[50] After over thirty years with Cherington Pl ace, as a respected senior professional, 
Ms. Gardner was treated in a demeaning, disrespectful and discriminatory manner by Ms. Geldenhuys, her supervisor. Clearly, Ms. Gardner’s race and place of origin were central to Ms. Geldenhuys’ race-based sl urs. She was made to feel devalued and vulnerable. Her 
testimony stands uncontradicted. Ms. Gardner has established a prima facie case of 
discrimination.  
[51] Both complaints are justified. 
REMEDIES 
[52] Under section 37(2)(a), I order Ms. Geldenhuys to cease contravening the Code  
and to refrain from similar contraventions in the future. 
[53] I have above set out the injurious imp acts of Ms. Geldenhuys’ conduct on Ms. 
Jurao’s and Ms. Gardner’s dignity, fee lings and self-respect, respectively. 
[54] In Hopkins v. T.T.I.C.L. Computer Corp. et al ., 2003 BCHRT 8, serious race-based 
remarks disturbed the complainant to the poi nt of stress, anxiety, and insomnia. The 
conduct was verbal and the complainant’s em ployment, unlike in this case, was of 
relatively short duration. Th e conduct complained of wa s egregious. The Tribunal 
awarded $2,500.00 for injury to dignity, feelings and self-respect. 
[55] Under s. 37(2)(d)(ii) , I order Ms. Geldenhuys to pa y to Ms. Jurao the sum of 
$2,000.00 for injury to dignity, feelings and self-respect, along with post-judgment 
interest. 
[56] I order Ms. Geldenhuys to pay to Ms. Ga rdner the sum of $1,500.00 for injury to 
dignity, feelings and self-respect along with post-judgment interest. 
 
 
______________________________ 
Bernd Walter, Chair 
2014 BCHRT 150 (CanLII)