[1] Margaret Kwan filed a complaint against Esmaeil Marzara and Ara 
Manufacturing Company Ltd. dba Ara Sales Company (referred to hereafter as “Ara”), 
alleging that she was discriminated against in  her employment, on the basis of sex (sexual 
harassment), contrary to s. 13 of the Human Rights Code.    
II THE COMPLAINT 
[2] Mr. Marzara owns and operates Ara.  Ms.  Kwan alleges that when she applied for 
employment with Ara, and on the single da y she worked for the company, Mr. Marzara 
sexually harassed her.  Mr. Marzara deni es any misconduct, and says Ms. Kwan has 
made false allegations against him in an attempt to get out of an employment contract with Ara.   
III PREVIOUS PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
[3] In Kwan v. Marzara and another , 2007 BCHRT 387 ( “Kwan (No. 1 ”)) the 
Tribunal found Ms. Kwan’s complaint justif ied.  That hearing proceeded in Mr. 
Marzara’s unexplained absence.  In Kwan v. Marzara and another (No. 2) , 2008 BCHRT 
382, the decision in Kwan (No. 1)  was set aside, as Mr. Marzara provided a reasonable 
explanation as to why he had been absent  for the initial hear ing, and the Tribunal 
exercised its jurisdiction to reopen th e complaint for reconsideration.   
[4] After Kwan (No. 2)  was decided, I was designated to rehear the case.  In coming 
to my decision, I have not reviewed, consider ed, or made reference to the evidence or 
conclusions set out in Kwan (No. 1) .  My decision is based solely on the oral and 
documentary evidence presented at the hearing over which I presided.  
IV DETERMINATION 
[5] On the basis of the credible evidence, I conclude that Ms. Kwan’s complaint is 
justified, and that Mr. Marzara sexually harassed Ms. Kwan in an employment setting.  As a result, Ms. Kwan is entitled to the remedi es set out at the end of this decision.   
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
2 V WITNESSES AND DOCUMENTATION 
[6] Ms. Kwan gave evidence on her own behalf.  She also called Viviann Wong and 
Rosanna Lin, former colleagues at a different jo b, as witnesses.  Mr . Marzara was the sole 
witness for the respondents.   
[7] There were numerous evidentiary disputes  at the hearing.  In assessing the 
credibility of the witnesses in the contenti ous areas, I have kept in mind the well-known 
considerations set out in Faryna v. Chorny , [1952] 2 D.L.R. 354 (B.C.C.A.).  I have 
considered such factors as  the witness’ demeanour, pow ers of observation, opportunity 
for knowledge, judgment, memory, and ability to describe clearly what was seen and 
heard.  I have also considered whether the evidence of each witness is in “harmony with 
the preponderance of the probabilities whic h a practical and info rmed person would 
readily recognize as reasonable in that  place and in those conditions”:  Faryna  (p. 357).   
[8] Although I have considered all the evidence  presented, in thes e reasons I set out 
only that evidence necessary to explain my d ecision.  In making my credibility findings, I 
note that I am entitled to accept some, none , or all of each witness’ testimony.   
[9] Overall, I found Ms. Kwan and her witnesses to be credible.  In particular, Ms. 
Kwan gave her evidence in a calm and stra ightforward manner, and answered the 
questions put to her promptly  and directly.  I also found Ms. Wong and Ms. Lin to be 
credible, but their evidence was largely limited to recounting their conversati ons with Ms. 
Kwan.   
[10] I did not find Mr. Marzara to  be a credible witness.  He was often argumentative 
and repeatedly referred to Ms. Kwan’s evidence in a dismissive manner.  He was evasive in response to basic questions put to him.  Overall, I found his version of events not in 
harmony with the preponderan ce of probabilities.     
[11] Documents quoted in this decision are re produced as in the original, with the 
exception of wording in square brackets. 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
3 VI THE EVIDENCE 
1. Background 
[12] All the events that led to the complaint occurred over five days in September 
2006.  However, to put the compla int in context, it is necessary to se t out some of the 
parties’ background prior to that time.   
[13] I also note that I have set out some evidence that was tangential to the complaint.  
I have done so because Mr. Marzara’s counsel  challenged Ms. Kwan’s overall credibility 
on the basis of that evidence. 
A. Ms. Kwan 
[14] Ms. Kwan is of Chinese ethnicity.  In  September 2006, she was 24 years old, 
having finished her undergradu ate degree at the University of British Columbia the 
previous spring.  Ms. Kwan had worked at a popular downtown Vanc ouver restaurant on 
a full-time basis, as an assistant manager, while going to university, and continued to do 
so after graduation.  Ms. Kwan testified that she planned to work for a year after 
graduation, and then return to school. 
[15] At the hearing, Ms. Kwan stated that at  the time of her encounter with Mr. 
Marzara, she was a naïve and sheltered perso n.  She testified that her life consisted 
primarily of going to work, school, and chur ch.  She testified that she had always 
received help from the people around her, and had had a very good relationship with her 
employer at the restaurant – sh e was treated “like a daughter”. 
B. Ara and Mr. Marzara 
[16] At the time of the hearing, Mr. Marzara wa s 58 years old, and had lived in Canada 
for approximately 23 years.  His English is accented.  He has three children, the youngest 
being a teenager.   
[17] Mr. Marzara owns and operates Ara, a re latively small company with an office in 
downtown Vancouver.  At the time of the in cidents in question, Mr . Marzara’s adult son 
worked at Ara, along with an office assistant.   For the purposes of this decision, it is 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
4 necessary to note that the assistant was olde r that Ms. Kwan.  According to Mr. Marzara, 
at the time of the hearing, the assistant wa s no longer living in Vancouver.  She was not 
called to give evidence.   
[18] According to Mr. Marzara, the Ara office has an open plan, consisting of four 
small rooms, including a boardroom, his office, and an open reception area.  One can see into all of the rooms, and something said in one  room can be heard in all the other rooms.  
The lines of sight were only obscured, to a limited degree, by filing cabinets.    
[19] Mr. Marzara and his family were regular customers at the restaurant where Ms. 
Kwan worked.  As a result, he and Ms. Kwan developed what I can best describe as a 
‘nodding’ acquaintance.   
2. Ms. Kwan’s Evidence 
[20] Ms. Kwan agreed that Mr. Marzara was a re gular customer at the restaurant where 
she worked, coming in about once a month.  Sh e testified that she thought Mr. Marzara 
had two children, and recalled that the rest aurant owners had named two miniature 
serving boats after his son and daughter.  
[21] In cross-examination, Ms. Kwan was challe nged as to the num ber of children Mr. 
Marzara had, and how often he came into the restaurant.  She acknow ledged that she was 
mistaken in her evidence, if he in fact ha d three children.  She did not recall Mr. Marzara 
coming into the restaurant on a weekly basis. 
A. September 20 and 21  
[22] According to Ms. Kwan, when Mr. Marzara came to the restaurant, they would 
sometimes engage in small ta lk.  On September 20, Ms. Kwan mentioned to Mr. Marzara 
that she was going to work for a year before going back to school, and that she wanted to 
find an entry-level business job, as her work experience had b een confined mainly to the 
restaurant.  When she made this comment, Mr. Marzara gave her a business card and told her to send him a résumé.   
[23] In cross-examination, Ms. Kwan rejected the suggestion that she was the one who 
first suggested to Mr. Marzara th at she would like to work for Ara.  She also rejected the 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
5 suggestion that he told her that he was not hiring at the time, but she could send in a 
résumé if she wanted to.   
[24] After she finished her work late that evening, Ms. Kwan went home and reviewed 
Ara’s website.  She then sent Mr. Marzara a ré sumé and cover letter by email, just after 
midnight on September 21, as she was very inte rested in working for the company.  She 
felt it might be an exceptional opportun ity for her in the business world. 
[25] Ms. Kwan received a call from someone at Ara the next morning.  In her 
examination in chief, she stated that call wa s from Mr. Marzara, but in cross-examination 
she could not recall if it was Mr. Marzar a or his assistant who contacted her. 
[26] Ms. Kwan agreed in cross-examination th at she had been wrong when she stated 
in examination in chief that the Ara office was on Pender Street, as it was on Hastings 
Street.  In any event, she te stified that upon her arrival at Ara’s office, Mr. Marzara had 
her take a test in a computer room, along w ith another woman.  In cross-examination, she 
disagreed that she took the test at the office reception desk.   
[27]  Ms. Kwan described the office as having a boardroom, an office, a reception area 
and some other work space.  At least some of the walls in the office were made of glass. 
[28] According to Ms. Kwan, after the test wa s over, Mr. Marzara took her into the 
office boardroom, and went through the test w ith her.  She acknowledged to Mr. Marzara 
that she did not do well on an exercise that invol ved a spreadsheet program, and agreed 
that she needed to improve her skills in this area. 
[29] Ms. Kwan testified that Mr. Marzara told her he wanted  to hire a younger person 
who could grow with the company, and menti oned that he hoped hi s children would one 
day take it over. 
[30] At the end of the interview, Mr. Marzar a told Ms. Kwan that he would let her 
know his decision.  He then gave her a hug.  She thought this somewhat odd, but did not think too much more of it, as she felt it wa s the type of hug one might give a friend.  
After she left, Mr. Marzara went on to interview another person.   
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
6 B. September 22 Meeting in Office 
[31] According to Ms. Kwan, Mr. Marzara called her the next morning, Friday, 
September 22, to tell her he was going to hire he r.  He also told her she should come in 
that afternoon to sign an employment cont ract.  Ms. Kwan’s cell phone records indicate 
she received a call from the Ara office number on September 22. 
[32] Ms. Kwan testified that when she arrive d, Mr. Marzara went over the contract 
with her.  He had her fill in her name on the form letter, and he and Ms. Kwan then 
discussed her probationary salary.  She test ified that he set he r salary at $1,600 per 
month, based on eight hours a day, at $10 an hour , and asked her to fill out the salary 
figures in the contract.   
[33] The employment contract included the following statement:   
In the event that either party termin ates this Employment Contract during 
the Probationary Period all monies due to you will be paid less statutory deductions. 
[34] Ms. Kwan said she was also asked to sign a “Conflict Of Interest Agreement”.  
None of the documents signed by Ms. Kwan sugge st that there were any penalties if an 
employee unilaterally terminated  the employment contract. 
[35] Ms. Kwan testified that during her meeting with Mr. Marzara, they also discussed 
a written list of job duties.  Mr. Marzara to ld Ms. Kwan that she w ould eventually learn 
all the tasks described in it.   
[36] At the hearing, Ms. Kwan stated  that at the end of the in terview, she believed that 
she had the job.  She testified that to her surprise, when she was about to leave, Mr. 
Marzara gave her another hug, and this time kissed her twice on the lips.  Ms. Kwan stated that she did not know what to thi nk, as she thought he was going to give her a 
friendly hug, and the next thing she knew, she was being kissed.  Ms. Kwan described 
herself as being in a state of shock as Mr . Marzara showed her around the rest of the 
office. 
[37] In the notes she stated she made Se ptember 23, Ms. Kwan described another 
incident that occurred on Friday, September 22: 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
7 After showing me the office he gave me another hug and kiss.  Made me 
feel real uncomfortable but I thought actions were related to culture.  But 
still did not feel right. 
[38] When asked in cross-examination why she di d not describe this last incident in 
her examination in chief, she replied that sh e remembered the incident, but had not been 
asked about it.  
[39] Ms. Kwan testified that after she left th e office, she discusse d what had happened 
with Ms. Lin, whom she knew to be taking a paralegal course.  Ms. Kwan thought Ms. Lin might know what to do.  However, Ms . Kwan only told he r about Mr. Marzara 
hugging her, not that he had kissed her.  Ms. Lin told Ms. Kwan that people often hug in 
a friendly manner.  In any event, Ms. Lin said  she would talk to one of her instructors 
about the incident. 
[40] In cross-examination, Ms. Kwan denied the suggestion that she picked up the 
employment contract and other documentati on on Thursday, September 21, and returned 
them the next day to the assistant.  She also denied the suggestion that on Friday, 
September 22, she had only met with Mr. Marzara’s assistant to go over some 
documentation.   
C. September 23 Telephone Call 
[41] Ms. Kwan testified that she next spoke to Mr. Marzara on Saturday, September 
23, when he called her.  Ms. Kwan’s cell phone records confirm that she received a two 
minute call from the Ara office number at 12:24 p.m. on September 23.  Ms. Kwan was 
asleep when Mr. Marzara called, as she had been working late th e night before.   
[42] Mr. Marzara began the conversation by aski ng her if she had told the restaurant 
management that she was going to be working for him and would be leaving.  She replied that she had mentioned her new job to the restaurant manageme nt, but that she planned to 
keep working at the restaurant at night.  He then asked her if she was working that day, to 
which she replied that she would be working at 5:00 p.m.  He next  asked what she was 
doing the next day, Sunday, to which she repl ied that she would be going to church.  
When he asked what kind of church, she to ld him she attended a Mennonite Brethren 
church.  He then asked if she went to church all day, to which she replied that she went to 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
8 a service in the morning and th en Sunday school in the after noon.  Finally, he said that it 
looked like she would not have time to meet him for coffee, to which she replied that she 
would not, but that she would see him at wo rk on Monday.  The conversation then ended. 
[43] Ms. Kwan’s notes of the conversation, ma de later the same day, are somewhat 
different.  In them she recorded the following: 
Sept 23 2006 - received call at 12:24 pm.  He as ked if I told [the 
restaurant] about new job.  I said told so me people, he said why not tell all.  
I said I will later.  Asked what time I will be at work.  Told him 5:00 pm.  
… Asked what I was doing sunday.  To ld him MB church.  He asked for 
whole day I said yes because of sunda y school & service  Asked me if I 
had time to go out for coffee on sunday  Told him no.  Will see him Monday morning.   
Phone call scared me even more.  Made  me feel really uneasy and concern. 
… 
[44] Ms. Kwan testified that after her convers ation with Mr. Marzara, she made two 
calls, one to Ms. Wong (one of her witnesses) , and another to a male friend.  The friend 
suggested that she begin taking notes of wh at she was experiencing.  As a result, her 
notes, as entered at the heari ng, are first dated September 19, four days before she began 
making them. 
D. September 25 Events 
[45] Ms. Kwan went to Ara’s office the follo wing Monday, September 25, to start her 
new job.  According to Ms. Kwan, she was met by the assistant who showed her around 
the office once again, and gave her some mate rials to review about the company.  Ms. 
Kwan says she looked through the materials while sitting at the office’s reception desk.   
[46] According to Ms. Kwan, when Mr. Marzara ca me to work later in the morning, he 
asked her to join him in the office board room and told her to make notes of his comments on a business matter.  Ms. Kwan was not familiar with the topic on which he was speaking.  The session la sted about 20 minutes, after which Mr. Marzara gave her 
another hug and a kiss. 
[47] Ms. Kwan testified that she immediately to ld Mr. Marzara that she did not know if 
hugging and kissing was part of his culture, but  it was not part of her own Chinese and 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
9 Christian culture.  Ms. Kwan then left the boar d room and returned to the reception desk.  
Mr. Marzara followed her, asking her if she was a Canadian.  When she said she was, he stated that Canadians were more open, to wh ich she replied that he r being Canadian did 
not detract from her being Christian and Chines e.  Mr. Marzara then said they would talk 
about the issue more at a later time.  Ms. Kwan was surprised that there would be anything more to talk about.  She decided th at she would finish th e day and not return. 
[48] During the afternoon, Ms. Kwan spent some  time putting paper products on a 
presentation board, and did some filing.  To wards the end of the afternoon, Mr. Marzara 
asked Ms. Kwan to speak with him in one of rooms in the office, whereupon he asked her 
how her day had gone, and noted that he wanted  her to work on her business writing.  Ms. 
Kwan went along with the conversation, agre eing with Mr. Marzara,  as she knew she 
would not be coming back.   
[49] Ms. Kwan alleges that Mr. Marzara then  began asking her questions about her 
personal life.  In response to his questions , she told him that she had a boyfriend, to 
which he replied that he thought she would be something more special to him.  Ms. Kwan 
told him she was happy with her relationship, and that being a Christian, she believed in 
monogamous relationships.  In any event, she said she wanted to keep her arrangement 
with him strictly professional.  Mr. Marzara commented to the effect that it appeared her 
relationship with him would be similar to that he had with his current assistant.  However, 
he then said that people often had relationshi ps on the side, and that she needed someone 
to take care of her.   
[50] In her examination in chief, Ms. Kwan said  that the discussion then ended and she 
left to go to work at the restaurant.  She never returned to the Ara office.  In cross-examination, it was pointed out to Ms. Kwan that  in her evidence in chief, she had never 
referred to her comment in her notes that Mr . Marzara hinted that advancement could be 
a problem for her, given her reaction to what he had allegedly said.  She agreed she had 
not mentioned it in her evidence in chief, no ting that she had not been asked about the 
comment. 
[51] Ms. Kwan testified that she never spoke to  Mr. Marzara’s assistant, who was in 
the office September 21, 22, and 25, about Mr. Marzara hugging and kissing her.  When 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
10 asked in cross-examination why she had not , Ms. Kwan said she did not speak to the 
assistant because she did not know her. 
E. September 26 and After 
[52] Ms. Kwan testified that on the morning of September 26, she tried several times to 
call the Ara office on her cell phone  to say that she would not be coming in, but she could 
not get through.  Her telephone records indicate  six calls to the Ara number on September 
26, between 8:30 a.m. and 8:45 a.m.  Ms. Kwan  went on to say that she was eventually 
able to get through to Mr. Marzara’s assi stant on another phone.  Ms. Kwan told the 
assistant she would not be coming into the Ara office again, sayi ng Mr. Marzara should 
know why.   
[53] On the same day, Ms. Kwan sent Mr. Marz ara a letter of resignation.  The first 
paragraph is as follows: 
I am writing this letter in regards to providing you an official resignation 
of the position of office support.  After the events leading to and the events 
that occurred on September 25, 2006 I feel that your company is not a 
place for me.  The environment that you propose I work in is not of a professional manner and as a result I feel I do not have to fulfill the requirements of the contract that was signed on September 22, 2006 at […] 
[54] In her letter, Ms. Kwan goes on to ask Mr . Marzara to pay her for her work on 
September 25, but also asks that he have no fu rther contact with her.  She closes her letter 
by stating that she is “disappoint ed that the situation had to end in this type of manner.”  
The letter does not contain any further description of the events alluded to. 
[55] Ms. Kwan testified that she did not start looking for a nother job until October 6, 
nine working days after she le ft Ara.  She stated she did not look for work sooner because 
she needed time off to deal with everything she had experi enced, and that she continued 
to have concerns about her employment c ontract with Ara.  Ms. Kwan found full-time 
employment at a law firm on October 16, ten working days after she began her search.  
She also continued to wo rk at the restaurant.  At the tim e of the hearing, she continued in 
both positions. 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
11 [56] Ms. Kwan testified that her experience at Ara has made her a different person.  
Prior to what happened, she had been fort unate, in that she had never had anything 
untoward happen to her.  Since the incident, she looks at things differently.  She knows 
she has to be more careful and less trusti ng of people.  She al so noted she sought 
counselling from her pastor after the inci dent, which, along with the support of her 
church group, has been helpful.   
[57] She concluded by stating that she wants th is episode of her life to be over, and 
that it has been particularly distressing th at the rehearing of the complaint has meant it 
was dragged out over three years.  Her expe rience with Mr. Marzara was not something 
she wanted published and broadcast, and she wants the matter concluded. 
[58] Ms. Kwan rejected the suggestion put to her in cross-examination that she had 
made up her entire story as a means of getti ng compensation for a job she realized she did 
not want. 
F. Viviann Wong 
[59] In September 2006, Ms. Wong was working in the same restaurant as Ms. Kwan.  
Ms. Wong described her relationship with Ms. Kwan as that of co-worker and friend, and 
currently as that of acquain tances, as they no longer see each other often.  Ms. Wong 
described Ms. Kwan as being reliable and ‘str aight-laced’.  She also recalled that Mr. 
Marzara was a regular customer at the restaurant. 
[60] Ms. Wong testified that Ms. Kwan was ha ppy and excited about her new job at 
Ara.  However, it soon became apparent that there were problems.  For example, during a 
shift at the restaurant on September 24, Ms. Kwan told her that Mr. Marzara had called 
her and asked her to go out for coffee with him.   
[61] In cross-examination, Ms. Wong disagreed  with the suggestion that Ms. Kwan 
had approached Mr. Marzara about a job.  Ms.  Wong agreed that all she knew about the 
allegations against Mr. Marzara was based on what Ms. Kwan had told her.  She had not 
seen anything inappropriate transpir e between Ms. Kwan and Mr. Marzara. 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
12 G. Rosanna Lin 
[62] Ms. Lin had known Ms. Kwan since 2004, as  Ms. Kwan was her manager at the 
restaurant.  In September 2006, Ms. Lin was training to be a paralegal.  Although she 
keeps in touch with Ms. Kwan, she no longe r works in the restaurant with her. 
[63] Ms. Lin described Ms. Kwan as a good role  model, and someone who took her job 
seriously.  She was a good source for advice an d problem-solving.  Ms.  Lin also recalled 
that Mr. Marzara was a regular customer at th e restaurant; he often came in with his wife 
and children. 
[64] Ms. Lin recalled Ms. Kwan being happy and excited about her new job at Ara.  
She also recalled Ms. Kwan telling her about Ms. Marz ara giving her a hug.  Her 
recollection was that she told Ms. Kwan it might  simply have been cultural, and not that 
important.  Ms. Lin also recalled telling Ms. Kwan to speak to others about the incident.   
[65] When she spoke to Ms. Lin, Ms. Kwan was concerned with the employment 
contract she had signed with Ara.  Ms. Lin replied that she would speak to one of the 
teachers in her paralegal program about th e situation.  However, Ms. Kwan had quit 
before she could do so. 
3. Mr. Marzara’s Evidence 
[66] While Mr. Marzara’s recollection of his interactions with Ms. Kwan is almost 
completely at odds with her account, there was agreement that he and his family had been 
long-time customers of the restaurant where Ms. Kwan worked.  He r ecalled that in 2006, 
he went to the restaurant about once a week. 
A. September 20 and 21  
[67] According to Mr. Marzara, when he went  to the restaurant on September 20, Ms. 
Kwan approached him, asking if he knew anyone  was hiring office staff.  She said she 
was looking for office work as she was ti red of working in the restaurant.   
[68] Mr. Marzara replied by telling her to se nd his assistant a résumé, which Ms. Kwan 
did.  She also sent an introductory letter.  On September 21, after he reviewed it, Mr. 
Marzara told his assistant to schedule an interview.  Mr. Marzara did not recall calling 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
13 Ms. Kwan himself that day, but remembered th at his assistant had arranged a couple of 
interviews.  Confusingly, however, he also ma intained in his evidence that he was not 
looking for new employees at the time.  
[69] In cross-examination, Mr. Marzara was re ferred to the Response to Complaint 
Form which he completed on December 8, 2006.  In  Section D, page 2, line 6, he states:  
…  I told her to come to our office for an interview and test of two 
assignment on words and MS Excel, test on words was ok, & Excel was not good (as per attached).  …   
[70] Mr. Marzara was then reminded that in his previous evidence, he had stated that 
he told his assistant to call Ms. Kwan.  Mr. Ma rzara stated that the two versions were not 
different as far as he could tell.  He noted that English was his second language, and later 
added that he was better at speak ing in English than writing.    
[71] Mr. Marzara recalled interviewing Ms. Kwan on September 21.  When Ms. Kwan 
arrived at the office, his assi stant gave her a questionnaire an d a job description.  She was 
also given two assignments: to  prepare a business letter and to prepare a computer-based 
spread sheet.  When he revi ewed the work, he t hought the letter was fine, but the spread 
sheet work was poor.   
[72] After Mr. Marzara reviewed the material s with Ms. Kwan, he told her he had 
another person to interview.  It turned out th at the second person was not at all suitable.  
Mr. Marzara testified that he  did not tell Ms. Kwan that sh e had the job that day.  
However, he did tell her to come the next  day to sign the company documentation, after 
which he would tell her of his hiring deci sion.  When asked if he touched Ms. Kwan on 
September 21, he stated categorically that he ne ver went close to her, and that he did not 
hug her.  In cross-examination, he said Ms. Kwan’s evidence a bout September 21 was 
fabricated, and that he never hugge d anyone, not even his children. 
[73] According to Mr. Marzara, on September 22, he told his assi stant that Ms. Kwan 
would be coming into the office that day, and that the assistant shoul d give her a copy of 
the Ara employment contract, as well as the conflict of interest and confidentiality 
documentation.  Mr. Marzara stated that he as ked all prospective employees to read the 
documents and sign them, after which he makes the decision whether to hire. 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
14 [74]  In cross-examination, Mr. Marzara stat ed that on September 21, he told Ms. 
Kwan that if she was interested in the positi on, she could fill out the documents required 
by Ara, and that she decided to do so the next  day.  He discussed he r potential salary with 
her on September 21, not September 22. 
[75] Mr. Marzara testified that the extent of his interaction with Ms. Kwan on 
September 22 was to say hello to her.  He ha d no meetings or discussions with her, nor 
did he have any physical contact with her.  Ms. Kwan filled out the required forms, gave 
them to his assistant, who in turn gave them  to Mr. Marzara to consider, which he did on 
September 23.  He maintained this position in cross-examination, despite acknowledging 
that the document was an offer of employment dated September 22.   
[76] Finally, in cross-examination, Mr. Marzar a was asked if it was true that on 
September 22, he had hugged and kissed Ms. Kwan, showed her around the office, and then hugged and kissed her again.  His re ply to each question was the same.  The 
suggestions were “lies”  and “bullshit”.   
B. September 23 
[77] Mr. Marzara testified that when he  called Ms. Kwan around lunch time on 
Saturday, September 23, he told her that she could work as an assistant to the current assistant, and that her star ting wage would be between $8.50 and $10 an hour.  If she 
could do the work, and if she improved her co mputer spreadsheet skil ls, her salary might 
go up after three or four months .  According to Mr. Marzara, that was the extent of his 
conversation with her on that date.  He deni ed having had the conversation she related in 
her evidence.  He maintained that th e entire content of the two-minute phone 
conversation with Ms. Kwan was that she could start work on the following Monday and her rate of pay.  In cross-examination, he stated that the suggestion that he asked her out for coffee on September 23 was also a “lie” and “bullshit”. 
C. September 25 
[78] Mr. Marzara stated that he  was in and out of the office on Monday, September 25, 
as was his son.  Towards the end of the day, he asked Ms. Kwan how things had gone 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
15 that day, and she replie d that she had learned a lot.  He went on to testify that he never 
touched Ms. Kwan on that date.  He was never alone with her in the office, never had her 
take notes for him, and never did anything inappropriate.   
[79] In cross-examination, it was Mr. Marzar a’s evidence that Ms. Kwan did no work 
for him that day, but did work assigned to he r by his assistant.  He again described Ms. 
Kwan’s evidence that he told her she needed so meone to look after he r as “bullshit”.  He 
denied saying anything to Ms. Kwan th at was in any way inappropriate.  
[80] According to Mr. Marzara’s evidence, when Ms. Kwan did not come to work the 
next day, he asked his assist ant to call her.  The assistant did so, and told Mr. Marzara 
that Ms. Kwan sounded sleepy.  When Mr. Ma rzara took the phone, he told Ms. Kwan 
that she had to be on time if she wanted to work for Ara.  Ms. Kwan sounded upset as well as sleepy, and, after thei r brief exchange, hung up.  Ms.  Kwan never returned to 
Ara’s offices. 
[81] During cross-examination, Mr. Marzara was referred to Ms. Kwan’s cell phone 
records for September 25, which indicate she ca lled the Ara office nu mber six times over 
15 minutes, beginning at 8:30 a.m.  None of th e calls lasted over a minute.  Mr. Marzara 
replied that the document was not his, that the records did not show a year, that he did not 
know if she called the office at those times, and did not know why she would not have 
gotten through if she had called.  Mr. Ma rzara vaguely recalled receiving Ms. Kwan’s 
letter of resignation.   
[82] In summary, Mr. Marzara denied any wrongdoing in regard to Ms. Kwan.  He 
said that after he hired her, she worked  one day, and then failed to return.   
VII ANALYSIS 
[83] Each counsel set out their understanding of the evidence, and urged me to accept 
their client’s version of events  as being more credible.  As the case turns entirely on the 
credibility, I find it more appropriate to set out  my findings of fact and analysis rather 
than repeat those submissions.  
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
16 [84] In order to succeed in her claim, the in itial burden is on Ms. Kwan to establish a 
prima facie  case of discrimination.  In O’Malley v. Simpson-Sears Ltd. , [1985] 2 S.C.R. 
536, the Supreme Court of Canada stated:  
A prima facie  case of discrimination…is one which covers the allegations 
made and which, if they are believed, is  complete and sufficient to justify a 
verdict in the complainan t’s favour in the absence of an answer from the 
respondent employer”.  (para. 28)  
[85] I will first set out my findings on the credibility of the evidence going to the prima 
facie  case.   
[86] I do not find that Ms. Kwan’s credibil ity about her experiences between 
September 21 and 26 was diminished because she was incorrect as to: 1) how many children Mr. Marzara had, 2) how often he came to the restaurant, or 3) which street the 
Ara office was on.  These were minor points of evidence, and, as note d earlier, tangential 
to the issues I must decide.  Fu rther, given the parties’ limited  interactions to that point, 
and the short period of employment, these mistakes are not surprising. 
[87] It would have been helpful to have clear er evidence as to the layout and design of 
the Ara office space.  Be that as it may, I do not accept that the de sign and layout were 
such that the events described by Ms. Kwan could not have happened because they would 
have been seen or heard by others in the office. 
[88] I do not agree that Ms. Kwan’s failure in her direct examination to recount the 
second alleged incident on September 22 seriously undermines her credibility.  She gave her explanation as to why she made the omission frankly and without hesitation.  
Throughout the hearing, when a weakness in her evidence was pointed out she was not 
defensive.  She acknowledged her mistakes and explained them. 
[89] It did not assist Mr. Marzar a’s credibility when he stat ed that he was not looking 
for new staff, while at the same time he interviewed Ms. Kwan and another person.   
[90] While Mr. Marzara spoke with accented Engl ish, he spoke at the hearing without 
hesitation, and had no difficulties in expressi ng himself or in being understood.  He had a 
firm grasp of the English language.  The narrative statement in the Response to Complaint Form that he completed is clear and concise. 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
17 [91] I do not find it credible that on Septem ber 22, Mr. Marzara would present a dated 
but unsigned letter of employment to Ms. Kwan, without explanation and without 
discussing it with her, or that he signed it on September 23 after reviewing it.  It was his 
letter, and there was nothing fo r him to review.  He was making the offer of employment, 
not Ms. Kwan. 
[92]  I have no persuasive basis on which to  conclude that on September 23, Ms. Kwan 
and Mr. Marzara could not have  had the telephone conversa tion she alleges.  I do not 
accept Mr. Marzara’s counsel’s suggestion that it would have been virtually impossible to 
cover the topics Ms. Kwan allege s.  All her responses to his inquiries were short, and she 
was clearly trying not to engage in the conve rsation with him.  Further, I do not find it 
credible that she would have  gone to the extent of craf ting fictitious notes of the 
conversation in an attempt to bolster her comp laint.  I find it less credible that it would 
take Mr. Marzara two minutes to tell Ms. Kwan that she was hired and what she was 
going to be paid. 
[93] I do not find it unusual that Ms. Kwan’s responses to Mr. Marzara’s advances 
were passive, not aggressive, or that she expresse d concern that she might offend him.  
Mr. Marzara was a much older and physically larger person than Ms. Kwan.  He owned 
the business where she had hoped to develop her career, and he was clearly in a position 
of power and authority over her.  It wa s her first office job after her graduation. 
[94] I also accept Ms. Kwan’s evidence that unt il these events occurred, she had lived 
a sheltered life, one which re volved around her school, her wo rk, and her church.  I do 
not agree that her lack of assertiveness in the face of Mr. Marzara’s increasingly 
aggressive advances indicated that  she fabricated her evidence.   
[95] Finally, I do not agree that if the ev ents Ms. Kwan alleges had occurred, she 
would have confided in Mr. Mar zara’s assistant.  That person was a stranger to her in an 
increasingly threatening environment.  Ms. Kwan took the more logical step of confiding 
in her friends and other colleagues and ma king the decision not to return to Ara. 
[96] I accept that rather than confront Mr . Marzara after he propositioned her on 
September 25, Ms. Kwan decided to finish her da y’s work, send in a letter of resignation, 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
18 and not return to Ara.  That behaviour was consistent with her wish to avoid 
confrontation. 
[97] Returning to Mr. Marzara’s submissions, he  says none of Ms. Kwan’s evidence is 
true.  He says that she concocted the entire  story, possibly for fina ncial gain, but more 
likely to get out of an employme nt contract for a job she did not like.  In order for me to 
accept this as the correct theory  of the case, I must conclude that, on the balance of 
probabilities: 
1) Even though Mr. Marzara was not l ooking for additional staff, he 
decided to test and interview Ms. Kwan and another person on 
September 21, and hire Ms. Kwan on September 23; 
2) After a single day’s work, Ms. Kwan decided she did not like her new 
position, and believed she had to c oncoct an excuse to terminate her 
employment contract;   
3) Between September 21 and 24, and prio r to her first day’s work, Ms. 
Kwan either told two co-workers at  the restaurant where she worked 
fictitious stories about encounters with Mr. Marzara, in an attempt to corroborate her excuse for quittin g on September 26, or convinced 
them to lie on her behalf at the hearing, about the conversations;   
4) Between September 21 and the exchange of documents between the 
parties, Ms. Kwan fabricated notes containing recollections of four 
inappropriate physical encounters w ith Mr. Marzara over five days, 
weaving into that account her conversations with her co-workers; 
5) On September 23, it took two minutes  for Mr. Marzara to tell Ms. 
Kwan little more than that she was hired and her rate of pay; 
6) Between September 23, and the exchange of documents between the 
parties, Ms. Kwan used her telephon e records for September 23 and an 
innocent call from Mr. Marzara to fa bricate the script of a conversation 
in which Mr. Marzara asked her to meet with him outside the workplace; 
7) On September 26, Ms. Kwan composed  and sent to Mr. Marzara a 
letter of resignation (containing no explicit allegations of misconduct) 
to further her malicious plan to terminate her employment contract; 
and, 
8) Once Ms. Kwan terminated the employ ment contract, she saw further 
advantage in pursuing a fictitious human rights complaint over several 
years and through two hearings. 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
19 [98] In sum, in order to find Mr. Marzara’ s evidence credible, I would have to 
conclude that Ms. Kwan is an unprincipled and brazen opportunist, and that Mr. Marzara 
was the victim of her deliberate attempt to smear him.  Based on what I find to be the credible evidence, I re ject this proposition. 
[99] On reviewing all the evidence, and afte r considering the manner in which that 
evidence was presented at the hearing, I conclu de that Ms. Kwan has established that she 
was subjected to sexual harassment by Mr . Marzara, within the meaning of the Code, 
before and during her brief employment at Ar a, and that she had to terminate that 
employment as a result of the harassment.  
[100]  As stated in Janzen v. Platy Enterprises Ltd. (1989) , 10 C.H.R.R. D/6205 
(S.C.C.):   
… sexual harassment in the workpl ace may be broadly defined as 
unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature th at detrimentally affects the work 
environment or leads to adverse job- related consequences for the victims 
of the harassment….  When sexual ha rassment occurs in the workplace, it 
is an abuse of both economic and se xual power.  Sexual harassment is a 
demeaning practice, one that constitu tes a profound affront to the dignity 
of the employees forced to endure it.  By requiring an employee to contend 
with unwelcome sexual actions or  explicit sexual demands, sexual 
harassment in the workplace attacks th e dignity and self-respect of the 
victim both as an employee and as a human being.  (at para. 44451)  (para. 
49) 
[101]  In summary, I find that Ms. Kwan was se xually harassed in the workplace by Mr. 
Marzara.  As a result, I find that Ms. Kwan’s complaint, that Mr. Marzara and Ara discriminated against her in employm ent, contrary to s. 13 of the Code , on the basis of 
sex (sexual harassment), is justified.   
VIII REMEDY 
[102]  I will now consider the application of the remedial sections of the Code , given the 
foregoing findings of fact and anal ysis.  Subsection 37(2) of the Code  sets out the various 
compensatory remedies available to Ms. Kwan in this case: 
37 (2) If the member or panel determines  that the complaint is justified, the 
member or panel 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
20 (a) must order the person that contravened this Code  to cease the 
contravention and to refrain from committing the same or a similar contravention, 
(b) may make a declaratory order that the conduct complained of, 
or similar conduct, is discri mination contrary to this Code , 
… (d) if the person discriminated agai nst is a party to the complaint, 
or is an identifiable member of a group or class on behalf of which 
a complaint is filed, may order the person that contravened this Code  to do one or more of the following: 
… (ii) compensate the person disc riminated against for all, or a 
part the member or panel determines, of any wages or salary lost, or expenses in curred, by the contravention; 
(iii) pay to the person discrimi nated against an amount that 
the member or panel consider s appropriate to compensate 
that person for injury to dignit y, feelings and self respect or 
to any of them. 
… 
1. Mandatory Order  
[103]  Pursuant to s. 37(2)(a), I order the respondents to re frain from committing the 
same or a similar contravention of the Code . 
2. Discretionary Orders 
A. Declaration 
[104]  Pursuant to s. 37(2)(b), I declare that the conduct complained of is discrimination 
contrary to the Code.  
B. Wage Loss 
[105]  Ms. Kwan’s last and only day of work for Ara was September 25.  She began 
looking for work on October 6, nine working da ys later, and began a new job on October 
16, 14 working days later (inclusive of the Th anksgiving statutory holiday).  She stated 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
21 she did not begin to look for work immediately after leaving Ara, in part in reaction to 
what had happened to her.  In her submi ssions, Ms. Kwan sought a total of 14 days in 
wage loss, at a rate of $80 per day, or $1,120. 
[106]  The burden is on the respondents to es tablish that Ms. Kwan did not take 
reasonable steps to mitigate her damages.  Based on the evidence before me, I have no basis on which to conclude that she failed to do so. 
[107]  In my view, it was understandable that Ms.  Kwan did not begin to look for work 
immediately after September 25, given the ex perience she had just been through.  When 
she began to look for work she was quickly successful.  In these circumstances, it is appropriate to compensate her for the entire 14 days claimed. 
[108]  Accordingly, pursuant to s. 37(2)(d)(ii), I order the respondents to compensate her 
for wage loss in the amount of $1,120. 
C. Injury to Dignity, Feelings and Self-Respect 
[109]  In her submissions, Ms. Kwan sought $6,000 fo r injury to her dignity, feelings, 
and self-respect.   In Fougere v. Rallis and Kalamata Greek Taverna , 2003 BCHRT 23 
(para. 133), the Tribunal took into account the seven non-exhaustive considerations when 
determining compensation for injury to dignity  in sexual harassment cases, first set out in 
Torres v. Royalty Kitchenware Ltd . (1982), 3 C.H.R.R. D/858 (Ont. Bd. Inq.).  They are: 
1. the nature of the harassment, that is, wa s it simply verbal or was it physical 
as well; 
2. the degree of aggressiveness and ph ysical contact in the harassment; 
3. the ongoing nature, that is, the ti me period of the harassment; 
4. its frequency; 
5. the age of the victim; 
6. the vulnerability of the victim; and, 
7. the psychological impact of the harassment upon the victim. 
[110]  I will address each of these considerations in turn.   
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)
 
22 1. In the present complaint, the harassment was verbal, physical, and included 
Mr. Marzara kissing and hugging Ms. Kwa n, and inviting her to meet with 
him outside the workplace. 
2. There were no issues of threats of phys ical violence involve d in Mr. Marzara’s 
conduct, but there were at least four incidents of unw elcome physical contact.   
3. The harassment occurred over less than a week. 
4. The harassment occurred on four of five consecutive days. 
5. There was a significant age disparity between Ms. Kwan and Mr. Marzara.  
She was 24 and he was approximately 55. 
6. Ms. Kwan was in a vulnerable position, and Mr. Marzara was clearly in a 
position of authority over her.  She was seeking her first professional 
employment opportunity outside a restaurant environment. 
7. Ms. Kwan presented herself as a hardwo rking and serious individual.  She 
believed herself to have been a naïve individual when she first encountered 
Mr. Marzara.  She gave evidence that events in September 2006 made her more wary and untrusting.  She sought c ounselling from her pastor as a result 
of what happened. 
[111]  In my view, taking into account these f actors, the amount Ms. Kwan has requested 
under this heading is a reasonable one.  Pu rsuant to s. 37(2)(d )(iii), I order the 
respondents to pay Ms. Kwan $6,000 in compen sation to her for injury to dignity, 
feelings and self-respect.   
D. Interest 
[112]  Pursuant to the Court Order Interest Act , [RSBC 1996], c. 79, I order prejudgment interest on the wage loss of $1,120 from September 25, 2006 until the date of 
this decision.  I order post-judgment interest , running from the date of this decision, on 
the wage loss of $1,120 and on the amount of $ 6,000 for injury to dignity, feelings and 
self-respect. 
 
 Kurt Neuenfeldt, Tribunal Member
 
2009 BCHRT 418 (CanLII)