[1] Mirical MacDonald filed a complaint alleging that Hesam Najafi and his 
company, Sign -A-Rama Vancouver , discriminated against her during  her employment , as 
a graphic designer and receptionist , on the basis of sex and marital status , contrary to s. 
13 of the Human Rights Code . 
[2] The respondents say that some of Mr. Najafi’s admitted comments to Ms. 
MacDonald were intended  and understood  as jokes, that others were not discriminatory, 
and that he did not make other alleged comments and gestures at all.  
[3] I conducted a hearing, at which I heard oral evidence from Ms. MacDonald, Mr. 
Najafi, and Mr. Najafi’s  son, Feras Najafi  (to whom I will refer as Feras to avoid 
confusion) , and received documentary evidence from all parties.   I did not admit in 
evidence written statements tendered by the respondents, said to have been provided by 
other employees, as these were not made under oath or a solemn promise to tell the truth, 
and the declaran ts were not available for cross -examination.  
[4] This is my decision on whether Ms. MacDonald’s complaint is justified, and, if 
so, the remedies to which she is entitled.  
Facts  
 Credibility of witnesses  
[5] Many of the facts about Ms. MacDonald’s employment, and her interactions with 
Mr. Najafi, are not in dispute.  In resolving conflicts in the evidence, and determining 
whether to accept the evidence of any witness, in whole or in part , I have adopted and 
applied the test set out in Bradshaw v. Stenner , 2010 BCSC 1398, at para.  186: 
Credibility involves an assessment of the trustworthiness of a witness’ 
testimony based upon the veracity or sincerity of a witness and the 
accuracy of the evidence that the witness provides ( Raymond v. Bosanquet 
(Township)  (1919), 59 S.C.R. 452, 50 D.L.R. 560 (S.C.C.)). The art of 
assessment involves examination of various factors such as the ability and 
opportunity to observe events, the firmness of his [or  her] memory, the 
ability to resist the influence of interest to modify his [or her] recollection, 
whether the witness’ evidence harmonizes with independent evidence that 
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
2 has been accepted, whether the witness changes his [or her] testimony 
during direct a nd cross -examination, whether the witness’ testimony seems 
unreasonable, impossible, or unlikely, whether a witness has a motive to 
lie, and the demeanour of a witness generally ( Wallace v. Davis , [1926] 31 
O.W.N. 202 (Ont. H.C.); Faryna v. Chorny , [1952] 2 D.L.R. 354 
(B.C.C.A.) [ Faryna ]; R. v. S. (R.D.) , [1997] 3 S.C.R. 484 at para. 128 
(S.C.C.)). Ultimately, the validity of the evidence depends on whether the 
evidence is consistent with the probabilities affecting the case as a whole 
and shown to be in ex istence at the time ( Faryna  at para.  356).  
[6] In general, where the evidence of Ms. MacDonald and Mr. Najafi conflicts, I 
prefer her evidence to his.  She testified candidly about her initial friend ly relationship 
with Mr. Najafi , did not appear to exaggerate  the nature or frequency of his alleged 
objectionable behaviour,  or of its effects on her;  and provided details, to the best of her 
ability, of the time, place, and other circumstances of his comments.  
[7] By contrast, Mr. Najafi sometimes said he did not reme mber the behaviour Ms. 
Macdonald alleged he engaged in, or  said he did not remember it happening , without 
actually denying it.  Mr. Najafi claimed to treat women and men absolutely without 
distinction, but testified, with respect to three of the male emplo yees:  “Sometimes, they 
are men, they use a bad word, like with the ‘f’.  I always told them, ‘Please don’t say this 
in front of any female’.”  He acknowledged referring to Ms. MacDonald as “girl”,  and 
commenting on her marital status,  and agreed that he n ever address ed male employees in 
a similar fashion.  
[8] Feras had little first -hand knowledge of the events detailed in the complaint, and , 
with one exception,  I have not found most of his evidence helpful in determining whether 
they occurred or not.  
[9] As detail ed below, a central aspect of Ms. Macdonald’s complaint is that, on 
several occasions, Mr. Najafi whistled at her, alone among the employees, to get her to 
come speak to him, as if she were a dog.  Mr. Najafi denied ev er doing so, and even 
denied being abl e to whistle at all.  Ye t, when Feras, who was excluded from the hearing 
room while Ms. MacDonald and Mr. Najafi gave their evidence, testified, he said that he 
had observed that, when Mr. Najafi was younger , he was able to whistle to call his friends 
“a couple of streets away”.  This discrepancy between Mr. Najafi’s evidence, and that 
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
3 given on his behalf by his son, touching on a central disputed factual issue, affected my 
view of Mr. Najafi’s overall credibility.  
 Factual narrative  
[10] Ms. MacDonald graduated , with distinction, from the University of Calgary in 
2008 with a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in visual studies.  
[11] From 2007, while she was still a student, until October 2009, when she moved to 
Vancouver, she worked in Calgary as a graphic designer in vari ous printing businesses, 
and in the marketing department of a real estate agency.  All of those businesses 
experienced financial hardship and laid off staff, and she decided to relocate.  
[12] Once in Vancouver, she took a part -time positi on in a bakery, and the n, also i n 
October 2009, she answered an advertisement for a position as a graphic designer at Sign A-Rama.   She was in her mid -twenties .  Mr. Najafi , who  interviewed and hired her , was 
considerably older – in his early 60s,  with adult children .  He starte d the business in 2007, 
after living for about 40 years in Iraq and Iran, and then moving to Canada in 1995.  
[13] After a short trial period, Mr. Najafi  offered her a permanent position.   Although 
her hours sometimes varied, she generally worked eight hours per  day, fi ve days a week.  
She did graphic design work, but also a variety of other tasks, including printing, and 
working with vinyl signs.  By the end of her employment, her pay rate was $14 per hour.   
With the exception of Mrs. Najafi, all of the other em ployees at the time were male.  
[14] Within a few weeks, Mr. Najafi and Feras, who also sometimes worked in the 
shop, expressed some dissatisfaction with the speed and quality of Ms. MacDonald’s 
design work.  She felt she was working as fast as she could, while maintaining accuracy.  
It is not necessary for me to come to any conclusion as to whether  or not  their criticisms 
were justified, as the complaint does not relate to any alleged treatment because of her 
performance, and the respondents do not suggest that she would not have remained 
employed, but for the events giving rise to the complaint.   Mr. Najafi fired her male 
replacement, who he said worked very fast but made many mistakes, four or five months 
after Feras hired him.  
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
4 [15] After Mr. Najafi and Feras raised  their concerns  about her work , Ms. MacDonald 
agreed to move to a receptionist, sales, and office position, at the same rate of pay.  It was 
more appealing to her to stay in the print community, as that was better than her former 
job in a bakery.  
[16] Ms. MacDo nald and Mr. Najafi were often the first people in the shop in the 
morning.  They had conversations that she characterized as very friendly chats, in which 
she shared some information about her personal life.  For example , she recalled an 
incident in which  he came over and asked her what her ex -boyfriend was like, and why 
they had broken up.  She did not object, and said they had an “honest conversation” about 
that.  
 Needing a man  
[17] However, Ms. MacDonald also described a number of incidents in which she sai d 
Mr. Najafi  made “random sniper comments”, not part of any other conversation.  In one 
such incident, during the winter  or early spring , Ms. MacDonald came in one morning, 
and was at the graphic design desk, shivering, when Mr. Najafi said, “You are cold;  
maybe you need a man to keep you warm.”   She didn’t respond.   Mr. Najafi did not 
address this allegation in his direct evi dence.  In cross -examination, he  agreed that he 
would never tell a male employee that he needed a woman to keep him warm at night.  
[18] I find that his comment was made, as described by Ms. Macdonald.  
 Marriage  
[19] On another occasi on, Mr. Najafi asked Ms. MacDonald when she would get 
married, “chastising” her, in her understanding, for not being married.  He said, “Maybe I 
will have to marry yo u.”  She told him that was ridiculous, that he was too old for her, 
and already married.  She did not think he was serious about marrying her, but that he 
was asking to make her uncomfortable.  She said, in an attempt to make the situation less 
uncomfortab le, that she and Feras were getting along well; m aybe they would get 
married.  Mr. Najafi  became upset, and asked what Feras had, when he had so many 
things.  
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
5 [20] Mr. Najafi testified, with reference to saying that he might marry Ms. MacDonald, 
that, “Maybe I t old her this one”, but that he was joking.  He said that he sometimes said 
similar things to his daughter, saying, “Maybe you will not marry anyone; [then ] I am 
your husband.”  He said this showed how close he was to her, and that he didn’t know if 
anyone had something against this.   In cross -examination, he said he agreed that h e did 
ask Ms. MacDonald when she  would get married, but that it was a joke, and that she 
“knew it was”.  
[21] I find that this exchange took place, as described by Ms. MacDonald, though I  
also accept that Mr. Najafi did not intend his comments, and Ms. MacDonald did not 
understand it, as a serious suggestion that he wanted to marry her.  
 Calling Ms. Macdonald to Mr. Najafi’s desk  
[22] Ms. MacDonald testified that , on many occasions , Mr. Najafi asked her to come 
to his desk to talk to her about work matters.  She said that sometimes he was very 
friendly, and would say, “Come over here and have a seat, please”.  But on other 
occasions, she said, he would be frustrated and just say, “Hey”, and poin t to the seat next 
to him.  Or he would look at her and just pat the seat beside him, or point at her and say, 
“Come here”.  
[23] In his direct examination, Mr. Najafi said that he never told Ms. MacDonald to 
“come here and sit” , and that he had two chairs in fr ont of his desk, and none beside him, 
so “how can I tap?  I don’t think it happened.”  However, he immediately added that, “If I 
bring a chair and put it beside me to show her something on the screen, I put my h and on  
the back of the chair.”  I n his respon se to the complaint, he wrote:  “[Y]es when I asked 
anyone to have meeting with [me] or discuss the job I point to the chair beside me to 
s[i]t.”  And, in cross -examination, he testified tha t, “So metime s, if I have something on 
the computer to show an emplo yee, I grab the chair and put it beside me.”  
[24] Mr. Najafi  also acknowledged that he was  under pressure, and sometimes not in a 
good mood, and that on those occasions his behaviour would “sometimes be different”.  
Given the clarity and credibility of Ms. MacD onald’s evidence, the general problems 
with the credibility of Mr. Najafi’s evidence, and his equivocation  and contradiction  on 
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
6 this point in particular, I find  that, on occasion, he behaved as described by Ms. 
MacDonald.  
 Whistling for Ms. MacDonald  
[25] Ms. M acDonald  said that these latter actions  of saying “Hey”, pointing, and 
patting,  made her feel awkward, though she couldn’t recall responding overt ly, but the 
ones which  most disturbed her were when Mr. Najafi  whistled for her.  She described an 
incident, f irst thing one morning, in which she was standing beside a whiteboard on 
which jobs were written.  She did not recall anyone else being present.  It was quiet, with 
no radio playing.  She heard a whistle, like a call.  Mr. Najafi whistled again, so she 
looked up, and asked him not to call her over like that, but just to say, “Mirical, come 
over here please.”  He did not address her request, but just shrugged it off and smiled.  
[26] Mr. Najafi  testified in direct examination that he “didn’t remember any time [he ] 
whistled.”  However, he also said he thought one time Ms. MacDonald told him she was 
not a dog, but he did not explain what he did, if not whistling, that would have prompted 
her to make this comment.   In cross -examination, he said he didn’t whistle for h er, but 
that, sometimes when someone speaks , they make whistling sounds, which he simulated , 
and that, “Maybe this is whistling.”  I did not find Mr. Najafi’s evidence on this point 
convincing.  He testified at some length on two different days, and at no time was he 
lisping or whistling in the way he demonstrated.  
[27] I find that, on this occasion, Mr. Najafi did whistle for Ms MacDonald, as she 
described, and that he did not treat male employees in a similar fashion.  
 Comments about a woman winning the Oscar  
[28] Ms. Macdonald testified to another incident one morning in which she and Mr. 
Najafi were engaged in small talk while getting coffee from a small area where tools were 
kept behind his desk.   She did not recall anyone else being present.   He was frustrated 
that James Cameron had not won an Oscar for “Avatar”; instead, his former spouse had 
won.  He commented to her, “Women steal everything from men in this country.  But I 
shouldn’t talk about it here.  Maybe some other time we will have that conversation.”   
She did not respond, because she did not want to cause a confrontation.  
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
7 [29] In his evidence, Mr. Najafi explained that he took a considerable interest in 
movies, including watching the Oscar awards every year.  He acknowledged thinking that 
James Cameron should  have won the award, and being upset that Mr. Cameron’s former 
spouse, Kathryn Bigelow, won instead.  However, he denied saying that “women are 
stealing, or something like this.”  He also commented, with reference to Ms. MacDonald, 
that she “didn’t tell me ; she didn’t say anything”, and that he “didn’t know she would 
take a note on me.”  
[30] In cross -examination, when asked about Ms. Macdonald’s evidence, Mr. Najafi 
first said that he didn’t remember.  Then he said that his English was not good enough to 
tell he r women are stealing everything.  To my observation during his lengthy evidence, 
this was clearly not true.  Mr. Najafi’s English, though accented and imperfect, was fairly 
fluent.  He did not demonstrate any difficulty understanding what he was asked, in either 
direct or cross -examination, and appeared able to express himself effectively.  
[31] When asked in cross -examination about Ms. MacDonald’s evidence that he said 
he shouldn’t talk about the matter there, and that maybe some other time they would have 
that convers ation, Mr. Najafi responded:  “I f I told her, I don’t know why I told her this. .. 
I forgot a lot of things.  Always I ask them to remind me, because [I have] a lot of things 
in my head.”  
[32] I prefer Ms. Macdonald’s evidence to Mr. Najafi’s on this poi nt.  In this and other 
matters, she was specific about what he said, the context in which he said it, and his 
recognition that his comment might be considered ina ppropriate.  His evidence vacillated 
between denying the comment outright, saying he didn’t re member it, and explaining it 
away.  From his evidence , I infer that he noticed her lack of response to a comment he 
now denies making at all, and that he was surprised, not by her false “note” of the 
comment, but by her bringing it up as part of her compla int when she had not objected at 
the time.  
[33] I find that this conversation took place as described by Ms. MacDonald, and that, 
while it was not necessarily directed at Ms. MacDonald because of her sex, it was 
indicative , to some extent , of his general attitu de toward women.  
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
8 Breakfast in bed  
[34] One of the allegations in Ms. MacDonald’s complaint was not against Mr. Najafi, 
but against a fellow employee identified  only as “Vlad”.  In the course of a chat at the 
front desk, Vlad offered to make her breakfast in bed , which she understood to be a 
sexual invitation.  She yelled at him, and told him his com ment was inappropriate.   She 
reported it to Mr. Najafi, who promptly took Vlad aside, said such comments were 
unacceptable, and threatened to fire Vlad if there was a  repeated incident.  There was not.  
Mr. Najafi did  not tell Ms. MacDonald how he had handled the situation, and left her to 
wonder what, if anything, he had done about her complaint.  
[35] I accept that this incide nt took place as described by Ms . MacDonald.  I  also find 
that, when it was drawn to his attention, Mr. Najafi took prompt, effective steps to 
ameliorate the situation.  This incident was isolated, brief, and not part of the larger 
pattern of alleged conduct by Mr. Najafi which was the focus of Ms. Mac Donald’s 
complaint.  
 Comment about Ms. MacDonald’s appearance  
[36] Ms. MacDonald testified that, at one point, she and Mr. Najafi had a private 
conversation, at her request, in his car, after he made critical remarks about people from 
India, including a male fr iend with whom she had gone on a date.  She said she brought 
up with Mr. Najafi other things that were bothering her, including that he had “chastised” 
her, implying that she was fat or obese.  She said he was inappropriate to call her fat.  He 
responded t hat she was not fat; she was “ hot and sexy”.  She said that he just needed to 
treat her like an employee, and not make remarks about her physical appearance.  She did 
not recall his exact response, but sai d that the matter was resolved.  
[37] Mr. Najafi testifie d that he didn’t remember referring to Ms. Macdonald as fat or 
obese.  However, he then said that, “If I said this I apologize.  I don’t know if I told her.”  
[38] I find that this conversation occurred as described by Ms. MacDonald , and that 
Mr. Najafi did not address simil ar comments to  male employees . 
 
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
9  Barbeque  
[39] Ms. MacDonald gave evidence about attending a barbeque hosted by a supplier in 
Burnaby  in the late spring, perhaps as late as June .  She, Mr. Najafi, and an employee 
named Miguel , rode together in Mr.  Najaf i’s car; another employee named Eugene rode 
his motorcycle.   She said she “felt” like Vlad was there, but said she couldn’t say for 
sure.  (This was an example of the occasions on which Ms. MacDonald , in giving her 
evidence, was clearly searching her memory, and was careful about its  extent and 
accuracy , which enhanced the credibility of her other evidence.)   Mr. Najafi confirmed in 
his evidence that Vlad was present in the car.  
[40] Ms. MacDonald became separated from the other Sign -A-Rama employees at the  
barbeque.  While she was looking for them, they drove up to her in the parking lot in Mr. 
Najafi’s car.  He said, “Hey, girl, get in the car.”  He was evidently joking, and Miguel 
was laughing, but she was upset, and said, “You shouldn’t call me a girl li ke that.  You’re 
lucky your wife isn’t here.”  Mr. Najafi acknowledge d that his wife wasn’t there, but 
continued to smile, and seemed to Ms. MacDonald to think it was funny that she was 
upset.   When asked in direct examination what upset her about the “jok e”, Ms. 
MacDonald responded that  it was, “like catcalling a girl on the street ... rolling up to 
some girl and picking her up”.  
[41] Mr. Najafi testified that the group had agreed to stay only an hour, because Mrs. 
Najafi had been left alone to take care of th e shop.  He and the others were waiting in the 
car for Ms. MacDonald.  When he saw her coming slowly, he said he used his hand to 
beckon her, and said, “Come on girl; let’s go.”  He said he didn’t know whether calling 
her a “girl” was “a very bad word or s omething”, in Vancouver, but that in Iran it would 
be “a complimen t”.  He was aware that she was angry.  
[42] In cross -examination, Mr. Najafi said that beckoning to Ms. MacDonald and 
saying, “Come on girl; let’s go”, was “like a joke”, and “didn’t mean anything ”.  When 
asked what the joke was, or what was funny about it, Mr. Najafi paused at length, and 
looked to his daughter, Soha, who was present in the hearing room, as if seeking her 
assistance.  He then said that there was “nothing funny in it”.  
[43] I find that this incident occurred as described by Ms. MacDonald.  
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
10  Final day of work  
[44] What turned out to be Ms. MacDonald’s last day of work was June 24, 2010.   
During the day, she testified that Mr. Najafi again tried to call her over to talk to him by 
whistling for h er and saying, “Come here”.  She objected and said, “Are you trying to ask 
me something?”  She said, “Did we get a dog?”  S he imitated his whistle, and patted her 
leg, as if calling a dog.   Several others present laughed; Ms. MacDonald described Mr. 
Najafi  as “angry but smiling”.  
[45] Mr. Najafi  testified that he “usually ” would say “Mirical, can you come here?”, 
and that she responded, “You are whistling.  I’m not a dog.”  He did not offer any 
explanation of why she would respond to a polite request by referrin g to whistling and 
dogs.  
[46] In cross -examination, Mr. Najafi testified that he didn’t whistle for Ms. 
MacDonald, and that he could “say that 100%, I didn’t whistle for her”.    He denied that 
he was able to whistle, and said that if he tried, it would be a so und, which he 
demonstrated, which was a cross between a hiss and a whistle.   
[47] Ms. MacDonald and Mr. Najafi agreed in their evidence that, immediately after 
this, Ms. MacDonald looked toward him and made a noise with her mouth that Mr. 
Najafi, in his respon se to the complaint and in his evidence, called a “raspberry” – a 
sound of disapproval or derision.  He said this was very loud, that it hurt him very much, 
and that he didn’t expect it from her, because she was a “very quiet girl”.  
[48] Mr. Najafi testified th at Ms. Macdonald humiliated him in front of all the 
employees, and that he told her, “If you are in my country, Iran, it is a very bad thing.  
You will be hanged.”   In his evidence, he  then commented that, “That’s in Iran.  
Something in my age.  If my daug hter told me this, i t’s unbelievable.”   He testified that 
Ms. MacDonald then laughed and went back to work until the end of the day, and then 
left without saying anything.  
[49] According to Ms. Macdonald, Mr. Najafi’s comment about being hung did not 
come until  the end of that day, Mr. and Mrs. Najafi were sitting together at his desk at the 
back of the shop, and Ms. MacDonald was by the installation table, heading out the door.  
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
11 He said to Ms. MacDonald, “You abused me when you said this thing about a dog.  In my 
country you would be hung.”   Ms. Najafi gave Mr. Najafi “a little slap”.  Ms. MacDonald 
was upset, and left through the front door.   In his cross -examination, Mr. Najafi said he 
didn’ t feel Mrs. Najaf i’s “backhand slap”, but said, “I don’t know, you can  ask her if she 
did this or not.”  Mrs. Najafi, though apparently present throughout this incident or 
incidents, was not called as a witness.  
[50] I find that this incident occurred as described by Ms. MacDonald, although I think 
it is likely, given the vehemen ce of Mr. Najafi’s reaction to the “raspberry”, that he made 
the comment about being hung immediately, rather than, or perhaps as well as, at the end 
of the work day.  I also find that, while part of Mr. Najafi’s reaction was attributable to 
what he percei ved as a challenge to his dignity and authority as an employer, part of it 
was also attributable to his perception that it was particularly inappropriate for a “girl” or 
a “daughter” to behave in this way toward a man.  
[51] Ms. MacDonald testified that she thou ght Mr. Najafi’s behaviour, as detailed in 
her complaint, was in part because she was a woman.  She was the only female present.  
She was the only one he whistled at.  The comment about getting in the car was specific 
to her being female.  She took the com ment about being hung as specific to her being 
female.  
 Police  involv ement  
[52] The next morning, June 25, 2010, Ms. MacDonald called the non -emergency 
number of the Vancouver Police Department to see whether it would consider Mr. 
Najafi’s conduct as harassment .  She identified a female officer to whom she spoke, who 
told her a detective woul d open a harassment file.  The officer said the conduct Ms. 
MacDonald was reporting sounded like harassment, and advised Ms. MacDonald to quit 
her job, so that harassment wo uld stop.  The officer told Ms. MacD onald not to contact 
Mr. Najafi; she said she would call him, and let him know that a friend of Ms. 
MacDonald’s would come in to pick up her last paycheque and return her keys to the 
shop.  
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
12 [53] After talking with the officer,  and notwithstanding her advice not  to contact Mr. 
Najafi, Ms. MacD onald sent him an e -mail that same day, in which she expressed her 
discomfort at  some of his behaviour as detailed above, including whistling at her to come 
to his desk, saying “come here”,  pointing at chairs , commenting about marrying her, and 
saying, “Hey girl, get in the car” at the barbeque.  She said she “drew the line” at his 
statement the day before that, “In my country you would be hung”, as “incredibly 
inappropriate to say to your f emale empl oyee and could be taken as a threat.”  
[54] Mr. Najafi confirmed that the police called him  and told him not to contact Ms. 
MacDonald.  
 Impact on Ms. MacDonald  
[55] Ms. MacDonald testified that leaving her job with Sign -A-Rama was difficult for 
her, both fi nancially and emotionally.  She had never been on social assistance, or need ed 
to use a food bank.  She said that was hard on her self -esteem.  Her search for other work 
was complicated by the fact that she had no reference from Sign -A-Rama, her most 
recen t employer.  
[56] Ms. MacDonald said that Mr. Najafi’s treatment of her made her feel 
uncomfortable and demeaned.  She wanted to leave to get away from his comments, and 
felt badly about herself for not doing so, but felt trapped, as she couldn’t afford to leave  
her job.  In cross -examination, she acknowledged that she did not see a doctor, counsellor 
or therapist after she left her job at Sign -A-Rama, and did not discuss her feelings with 
any medical professional.  
[57] Cumulatively, I find that the treatment to which  Ms. MacDonald was subjected, 
culminating in Mr. Najafi’s angry reference to being hung, and the advice she received 
when she reported that incident to the police, made it reasonable for her decide that it was 
no longer tenable for her to remain in her  employment.  
 Mitigation of financial losses  
[58] After Ms. MacD onald left  her employment at Sign -A-Rama in late June 2010, in 
the circumstances described above,  Human Resources and Skills Development Canada 
denied her employment insurance bene fits, because they sa id she had not worked 
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
13 sufficient hours to qualify.  She required short -term social assistance  (supplemented by 
pawning her laptop)  to pay her rent, and eventually received a total of about $2,100 in 
such benefits.  She received assistance from the Greater Vancouver Food Bank in early 
July and early September 2010.  
[59] Ms. MacDonald immediately began looking for other work.  F rom the beginning, 
she did not restrict her search to the graphic design work for which she was qualified.  In 
mid-July 2010, she obtained  part-time work for a month, making dog treats at a bakery , 
earning a little over $400 .  Beginning August 1, 2010 a friend offered her a part -time 
position at  the front desk of a tea  shop and art gallery.   There she earned a little over 
$1,200, before bein g laid off due to a shortage of work .  From September 2010 to Jan uary 
2011 , she was employed  as a graphic designer and print opera tor at another sign design 
shop, earning approximately $8 ,600, until she quit, in circumstances not explained in the 
evidence.   Beginning in late September, 2010, she accepted a casual, part -time position as 
a bartender for a theatre at $10 per hour.   She earned approximately $1 ,150 from this 
work in 2010.  
[60] The respondents did not seriously ch allenge the adequacy of Ms. MacD onald’ s 
efforts to mitigate any financial losses she suffered as a result of the end of her 
employment at Sign -A-Rama.  In cross -examination, she was asked why she didn’t 
consider moving back to Calgary, where her family was.  She responded that, to do so, 
she w ould have had to abandon everything she owned, becaus e she couldn’t afford to 
move her belongings , and that she did not even have money for a bus ticket.  I am 
satisfied on the evidence before me that the respondents have not met their burden of 
showing an y failure  on Ms. MacDonald’s part  to mitigate her damages.  
Analysis  
[61] Section 13(1) of the Code  prohibits sex discrimination regarding employment.  It 
provides:  
(1) A person must not  
(a) refuse to employ or refuse to continue to employ a person, or  
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
14 (b) discr iminate against a person regarding employment or any term 
or condition of employment because of the ... sex ... of that person 
... . 
[62] Although Ms. MacDonald also made her discrimination complaint on the ground 
of her marital status, I do not think it is nec essary to consider that ground separately from 
that of sex.  
[63]  Janzen v. Platy Enterprises Ltd. , [1989] 1 S.C.R. 1252, the Supreme Court of 
Canada established that sexual harassment is sex discrimination, and provided the 
following non -exhaustive definition:  
[S]exual harassment in the workplace may be broadly defined as 
unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature that detrimentally affects the work 
environment or leads to adverse job -related consequences for the victims 
of the harassment.   ...  When sexual harassmen t occurs in the workplace, it 
is an abuse of both economic and sexual power.   Sexual harassment is a 
demeaning practice, one that constitutes a profound affront to the dignity 
of the employees forced to endure it.   By requiring an employee to contend 
with unwelcome sexual actions or explicit sexual demands, sexual 
harassment in the workplace attacks the dignity and self -respect of the 
victim both as an employee and as a human being.  
(para. 56)  
[64] In order to succ eed in her complaint, Ms. MacDonald  has the burd en of proving, 
on a balance of probabilities, that the words and actions of which she complains occurred, 
and that they were unwelcome :  Mahmoodi v. UBC and Dutton , [1999] B.C.H.R.T.D. No. 
52, paras. 140 -51. 
[65] She must also prove that they were related, at least in part, to her sex.   This does 
not mean, however, that she must prove that Mr. Najafi’s conduct was overtly, or even 
covertly,  sexual.  She need only establish that he treated her adversely  in connection with 
her employment , and differently from other employees, at least in part because she was a 
woman.   See, generally, for a case in which the Tribunal found discrimination on the  
basis of sex, when much of the conduct was not “sexual”:  J.J. v. School District No. 43 
(No. 5 ), 2008 BCHRT 360.   
[66] I have found , as facts , that the incidents complained of occurred, essentially as 
testified to by Ms. MacDonald , and that each was related, at least in part, to the fact that 
she was a woman .  I also find that, when she was particularly disturbed by Mr. Najafi’s 
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
15 conduct, as with the whistling, the comments about her weight, and the reference to her 
as “girl” at the barbeque, she objected.  On other occasions, I find that, in spite of her 
silence, or her attempt to deflect the behaviour with humour, a reasonable person in Mr. 
Najafi’s position should have known that his c onduct was unwelcome.  
[67] I accept that Mr. Najafi did not set out deliberately  to insult or injure Ms. 
MacDonald because of her sex, although he does seem to have largely ignored her efforts 
to communicate to him that she found his actions and comments offensive or demeaning. 
Section 2 of the Code  specifies that discrimination need not be intentional; it is sufficient 
if the effect  of a person’s conduct is to create adverse consequences for another person 
because of their membership in a protected group, or their having a protected 
charac teristic.  
[68] I determine  that Mr. Najafi  and (because, under s. 44(2) of the Code , his acts  and 
Vlad’s  are dee med to be those of the company ) Sign-A-Rama  discriminated against Ms. 
MacDonald  regarding  her employment because of her sex.  
Remedies  
 Cease and refrain  
[69] As I have found Ms. MacDonald ’s complaint justified, s. 37(2)(a) of the Code  
requires me to order that the respondents “ cease the contravention and to refrain from 
committing the same or a similar contravention ”, and I so order.  
Wage loss  
[70] Section 37(2)(d)(ii) of the Code  permits the Tribunal to or der a person who 
contravenes it to “ compensate the person discriminated against for all, or a part the 
member or panel determines, of any wages or salary lost, or expenses incurred, by the 
contravention ”. 
[71] Ms. MacDonald  asks the Tribunal to compensate her f or lost wages for  the 62  8 hour working days, at $14 per hour, she says it took her to find other employment, less 
the amounts she actually earned at other jobs during the period , for a total of $5,291.50 .  
In their argument, the respondents  do not take i ssue with the hours or dollars which are  
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
16 the basis for her calculations; they simply say that the treatment Ms. MacDonald 
experienced was not sufficiently serious to have required her to resign from her 
employment.  I have already found , as a fact , that it  was reasonable for her to do so.  
[72] Neither party addresses any potential deduction from Ms. MacDonald’s wage loss 
claim to reflect the social assistance payments she received.  In the absence of any 
argument on this point, I decline to make any deduction un der this head.  
[73] I order the respondents to pay Ms. MacDonald $5,291.50 for wage loss because of 
the contravention.  
Expenses  
[74] Ms. MacDonald’ s only claim for expenses is the cost of her return airfare between 
Calgary, where she now lives, and Vancouver, in ord er to attend the hearing.  
[75] I accept that it was necessary for her to incur this expense, and that it was an 
expense incurred because of the respondents’ contravention.  Accordingly, I order the 
respondents to pay her the $306.79 which the documentary eviden ce establishes was the 
cost of her airfare.  
Injury to dignity, feelings , or self respect  
[76] Section 37(2)(d)(iii) of the Code  permits the Tribunal to order a person who 
contravenes it to “ pay to the person discriminated against an amount that the member or 
panel considers appropriate to compensate that person for injury to dignity, feelings and 
self respect ”.  Ms. MacDonald  asks the Tribunal to award her “at least $5,000” under this 
heading.  She does not refer to any cases previously decided b y the Tribunal i n support of 
that amount.  
[77] In Behm v. 6 -4-1 Holdings and others , 2008 BCHRT 286, the Tribunal adopted, at 
para. 66, the following factors from Torres v. Royalty Kitchenware Ltd. , (1982), 3 
C.H.R.R. D/858 (Ont. Bd. Inq.) as potentially relevant to an assessm ent of damages for 
injury to dignity in a sexual harassment case:  
1. the nature of the harassment, that is, was it simply verbal or was it 
physical as well?  
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
17 2. the degree of aggressiveness and physical contact in the harassment;  
3. the ongoing nature, th at is, the time period of the harassment;  
4. the frequency of the harassment;  
5. the age of the victim;  
6. the vulnerability of the victim; and  
7. the psychological impact of the harassment upon the victim.  
[78] In that case, in Behm  and Tyler v. Robnik an d Mobility World (No. 2) , 2010 
BCHRT 192, in more egregious circumstances, the Tribunal awarded damages of $5,000 
and $6,500, respectively.    
[79] I accept that the circumstances in this case were somewhat different from those in 
Behm  and Tyler , and that a cons ideration of the “ Torres  factors” supports an award 
towards the lower end of the scale.  Mr. Najafi’s conduct was insensitive, demeaning, and 
persistent.  There was a considerable disparity in age and position between Mr. Najafi 
and Ms. MacDonald, and she was in vulnerable financial circumstances that made it 
difficult to object or leave.  However, all the conduct was verbal; there was no physical 
contact at all, it was relatively infrequent, and, on the evidence, the psychological impact 
on Ms. MacDonald w as relatively modest.  
[80] In all the circumstances, I order the respondents to pay Ms . MacDonald $4 ,000 for 
injury to her dignity, feelings and self respect, pursuant to s. 37(2)(d)(iii) of the  Code. 
[81] In accordance with the Court Order Interest Act , R.S.B.C. 19 96, c. 79, as 
amended I order t he respondents to pay Ms. MacDonald  pre-judgment interest, for wage 
loss, from September 21, 2010, the day she was re -employed , and post -judgment interest 
on compensation for  expenses, and for  injury to dignity, feelings and self respect.  
Decision  
[82] I determine that Ms. MacDonald ’s complaint is justified.  
[83] I make t he remedial orders set out in paragraphs 69, 73, 75, 80, and 81,  above.  
 
 
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
 
18 [84] Both  respondents are jointly and se verally liable to pay Ms. MacDonald  the 
compensation for he r lost wages,  expenses,  and for injury to her dignity, feelings and self 
respect.  
 
 
 Murray Geiger -Adams , Tribunal Member  
 
2013 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)