[1] Q filed a complaint against Wild Log Homes Ltd. (“Log”) and Leonard Walker 
(collectively the “Respondents”), alleging di scrimination in employment on the basis of 
sex (sexual harassment), contrary to s. 13 of the Human Rights Code, and that they 
retaliated against her, contra ry to s. 43, for filing a co mplaint with the Tribunal. 
[2] The Respondents deny the allegations. Mr . Walker appeared on behalf of both 
himself and Log at the hearing, though he onl y attended the hearing until the conclusion 
of Q’s cross-examination. He called no evid ence on behalf of the Respondents and did 
not attend to present any final argum ent or respond to Q’s argument. 
[3] Q has also filed an application for costs against Mr. Walker on the basis that he 
engaged in improper conduct during the course  of these proceedings. Mr. Walker was 
provided the opportunity to respond to  that application, and did so. 
[4] In order to address that application, it is necessary to review the procedural history 
of this complaint. I will first set out that history, then review the evidence presented during the course of the hearing and my findings  of fact. I will then set out my analysis 
and decisions. 
[5] All references to documenta ry excerpts are as written. 
Procedural History 
[6] Q filed her complaint on June 17, 2009.  
[7] On January 6, 2010, the Tribunal, amongs t other things, set deadlines for 
disclosure of documents and hearing dates. 
[8] On March 19, 2010, the Respondents filed a response to the complaint, together 
with applications to defer (or alternatively adjourn the hearing dates), extend the time for 
disclosure of certain documents and dismiss the complaint on March 19, 2010. The 
response and applications to dismiss were late-filed, but the Tri bunal extended the time 
for filing. 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
2 [9] The basis of the application to adjourn wa s to await the conclusion of a criminal 
proceeding pending against Mr. Walker involving alleged sexual assault against Q.  
[10] The Tribunal adjourned the hearing dates and gr anted the Respondents’ 
application to extend the time to disclose certain documents. Specifically, in regard to documents in the Respondents’ possession or co ntrol, which Mr. Walker intended to rely 
on for the purpose of his criminal defence, the Tribunal ordered that those documents be 
disclosed at the conclusion of the criminal tr ial, which was scheduled to be completed by 
August 13, 2010.  
[11] In regard to documents disclosed to th e Crown in the criminal proceedings and 
which the Respondents were seeking from th e Canada Border Services Agency in 
relation to the human rights complaint, th e Tribunal ordered that the documents be 
disclosed as soon as possible, but in any event, no later than August 13, 2010. 
[12] Sometime later, the Tribunal set new hearing dates. 
[13] By August 13, 2010, the Respondents had not provided Q with any of the 
documents that were the subject of the Tribunal’s earlier order. 
[14] The hearing dates were s ubsequently adjourned. 
[15] Q then wrote to the Tribunal requesti ng that the Respondents provide document 
disclosure by no later than Novemb er 15, 2010. The Respondents did not do so. 
[16] The Tribunal subsequently set new hearing dates for December 5-9, 2011.  
[17] On October 17, 2011, Q applied to the Trib unal for certain or ders, including an 
order that the Respondents not be entitled to  rely on any documents that they have 
refused to produce to Q. She also applied to  add an allegation of retaliation to her 
complaint.  
[18] The Tribunal scheduled a pre-hearing te lephone conference call for November 23, 
2011 to consider Q’s applications. On the morn ing of the scheduled conference call, the 
Respondents applied to dismiss the complain t pursuant to ss. 27(1 )(c) and (e) of the 
Code.  
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
3 [19] During the pre-hearing te lephone conference call, th e Respondents advised the 
Tribunal that they intended to call one witn ess in addition to Mr. Walker. Mr. Walker 
also stated that he was in possession of th ree bags of documents and a laptop computer 
which stored relevant information. He estimat ed that the bags of documents contained 
approximately 5,000 documents. He confirme d that neither the documents nor the 
information stored on the laptop computer ha d been produced to Q, though he indicated 
over 3,000 documents had been filed in a Supreme Court proceeding. He noted, in a written response, that he thought Q was on a “fishing expedition” for the documents, that 
if she wanted them, they we re “for sale” at $.35 a page  and that he believed the 
Respondents had supplied all their relevant documen ts to her. However, he also indicated, 
during the pre-hearing telephon e conference call, that cert ain of the documents would 
exonerate him. 
[20] The Tribunal Member conducting the pre-h earing telephone call de clined to make 
any order at that time respecting the documents, deferring the issue for determination at the outset of the hearing into the compla int. The Tribunal did, however, remind Mr. 
Walker of his ongoing obligation to provide  arguably-relevant documents to Q. 
[21] In addition, the Tribunal added the ground of retalia tion to the complaint and 
declined to consider the late-filed applications to dismiss. 
[22] On November 28, 2011, Q wrote to the Re spondents requesting production of all 
arguably-relevant documents in their possession or control. 
[23] Also on that date, the Respondents filed an amendment to th eir application to 
dismiss and attached the Reasons for Judgmen t of the Honourable Judge Walker in the 
criminal proceedings. 
[24] The Respondents did not produce any additional documents prior to the 
commencement of the hearing. 
[25] At the outset of the hearing, I heard submi ssions from the parties on an issue that 
had arisen in respect of the al legation of retaliation, and conf irmed that the allegation of 
retaliation was added to the complaint and s hould be addressed in evidence and argument 
by the parties. 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
4 [26] I also heard submissions on whether the Res pondents would be ent itled to rely on 
any of the now 5,000 or more documents they alleged were in their possession, or stored 
on the laptop computer, but which had not been  provided to Q. Mr. Wa lker indicated that 
he had brought the documents and the computer  to the hearing, a nd that most of the 
documents related to the criminal proceedings.  
[27] Q noted that she had not seen the documents  Mr. Walker was referring to, and that 
she had repeatedly asked him to produce his relevant documentation. She submitted that the Respondents failed to comply with the Tribunal’s prior di rections and order 
respecting the production of documents and that it would be a disservice to its process to 
allow a respondent to ignore the Tribunal`s directions and orders and then rely on 
documents at hearing that the complainant had not previously had the opportunity to 
review. 
[28] After hearing from the parties, I made  the following ruling. Mr. Walker had 
indicated to the Tribunal that he had previously disclosed to  Q some documents that he 
considered relevant and that he intended to re ly on at the hearing. He also stated that he 
had transcripts and an additional 5,000 or more documents that he might also rely on, but which he had refused to disclose  to Q prior to the hearing. 
[29] On March 29, 2010, Mr. Walker was orde red to produce certain documents by a 
specific date. He failed to do so in complian ce with that order. He was advised of his 
ongoing obligation to disclose those documents , and the fact that the Tribunal might 
preclude him from relying on those documents at  hearing if he failed to disclose them. 
Despite this, and despite bei ng provided a further opportunity to disclose the documents 
to Q prior to the hearing in order to allow her a fair opportunity to respond to those documents, he did not disclose them. He also insisted that he woul d only provide certain 
documents if she paid a $.35 per page copying fee. 
[30] In those circumstances, I considered that it would be unfair to Q to allow Mr. 
Walker to introduce evidence documents whic h, by his own decision, he withheld from 
her contrary to the Tribunal’s order a nd his ongoing obligation to disclose such 
documents. I also considered that the hear ing had been adjourned on more than one 
occasion, and that the disclosure of su ch a massive amount of documents would 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
5 necessarily result in a further delay in the proceeding. Mr. Walker was therefore 
precluded from relying on documents which he  had refused to disclose prior to the 
hearing. He was, however, enti tled to rely on the documents that he had disclosed in the 
course of the proceeding. 
[31] After issuing my ruling, Mr. Walker stated that he did not have the money to copy 
the documents, and that, without them, there wa s not much he could do. However, he also 
stated that he had submitted all the documents  in a B.C. Supreme Court civil claim that 
he had commenced. Presumably, therefore, he wa s able to make copies in the context of 
that claim.  
[32] The fact is that Mr. Walker did not indicat e, until shortly before the hearing, that 
he intended to rely on such a massive am ount of documentation, and did not take any 
steps to alert Q to the existe nce of these documents and prov ide her an opportunity to at 
least review them in a reasonable time fram e prior to hearing. I did not consider Mr. 
Walker’s continued protesta tions to be persuasive. 
[33] I also declined the Respondents’ amende d application to dismiss the complaint . It 
had been filed well outside the time-limits for filing such an application and, in my view, 
there was no reasonable basis asserted for extending the time limit to file such an application.  
[34] In their applicati on, the Respondents relied on th e decision in the criminal 
proceeding. I note that the issues, legal framew ork, parties and standard  of proof in this 
complaint differ from those in the criminal pr oceeding. For example, in this complaint, I 
must assess whether Q has proven, on a bala nce of probabilities, her complaint of 
discrimination. In order to do so, unlike the cr iminal proceeding, intent  is not a necessary 
element that need be proven by Q. I also no te that, in the crimin al proceeding, the Court 
did not conclude that the alleged incidents,  which includes two kisses, breast poking and 
buttocks grabbing, did not occur. Rather, th e Court concluded that, even though those 
acts may have occurred, the Crown had not proven the alleged offence beyond a reasonable doubt. 
[35] I did allow the Respondents to pursue an application that the complaint had been 
filed for an improper motive at the conclusion of  the hearing, and to explore that issue in 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
6 evidence at the hearing. At the end of the day, the Respondents did not avail themselves 
of this opportunity. 
[36] I also addressed two matters raised by Q at  the outset of the hearing. The first was 
an application to anonymize this  decision in the same manner  as the criminal decision. 
That is, to refer to the complainant only by initials. The Respondents did not object to this 
application and I granted it. I will refer to the co mplainant throughout as Q. 
[37] Q also applied to have the eviden ce of Ms. Gloria Frimpong heard by 
teleconference. It wa s necessary for Ms. Frimpong to make childcare arrangements, and 
to travel for a lengthy period to attend the hear ing. She also had an exam to write on the 
afternoon of the day she was scheduled to give evidence. The Respondents objected to 
the application on the basis that Ms. Frim pong was an important witness and it was 
necessary to cross-examine her on certain doc uments (that Mr. Walker indicated he had 
previously disclosed to Q). Q indicated that the disclosed documents could be provided to 
Ms. Frimpong by email so they would be available to her du ring her evidence. 
[38] I denied the application to hear Ms . Frimpong’s evidence by telephone. In the 
circumstances, I considered that Mr. Walk er should have the opp ortunity to crossexamine her in person and that, if an asse ssment of credibility was necessary, it may 
benefit the Tribunal to have the witn ess present while giving her evidence. 
[39] An issue also arose in regard to the atte ndance of another witness. Mr. Walker had 
only identified one witness in addition to himsel f on the witness list he provided to Q. He 
had served an Order to Atte nd on that witness, who was a police officer. The police 
officer attended on the first day of hearing since Mr. Walker had not informed her of 
when her evidence might be required. The police officer was excused and was scheduled to give evidence at 1 p.m. the next day. 
[40] The hearing commenced and, after the morn ing break, Mr. Walker  requested that 
the hearing be adjourned so he could file a document in Supreme Court. He also indicated 
he wished to apply for judicial  review of the ruling that he  was precluded from relying on 
the documents that he had failed to  disclose prior to the hearing. 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
7 [41] I declined the application to adjourn as I did not consider it to be reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mr. Walker was free to make arrangements to file any documents he wished in Supreme Court either over the break s, including lunch breaks, or through the 
use of an agent, lawyer or ot her person. I advised Mr. Walker th at he was free to attend or 
not attend the hearing, but that if he chose not  to attend, it would proc eed in his absence. 
[42] Mr. Walker continued to attend the hear ing. At the end of the first day, Mr. 
Walker requested that the hearing resume at 1 p.m. the next day rather than 9:30 a.m. on 
the basis that he had an appointment befo re a B.C. Supreme Court Justice the next 
morning. After hearing from the parties, I decl ined to adjourn the h earing until 1 p.m. the 
next day as I consider ed it unreasonable in the circumst ances. The hearing dates had been 
set for a long time. Mr. Walker had not brought  the application to adjourn in a timely 
manner, and had not provided any information as to why it had been necessary to schedule the appointment on the morning of a scheduled Tribunal hearing date. As well, I 
noted that witnesses had been scheduled to  attend the hearing and had organized their 
time accordingly.  
[43] The hearing commenced the next morning wi th Mr. Walker in attendance. At the 
commencement of this day of hearing, the Re spondents applied to ca ll nine additional 
witnesses in support of their cas e, as well as the lawyer w ho represented Mr. Walker in 
the criminal proceeding. Mr. Walker advised that four of the witnesses could provide 
evidence about his whereabouts on some of the dates on which Q alleges he sexually 
harassed her. Other witnesses could provide evidence about documents that the Tribunal 
had ruled were inadmissible, or issues that we re irrelevant to the matters addressed in the 
complaint or the response to the complaint filed by the Respondents.  
[44] I allowed Mr. Walker to call the witnesse s who he said would provide evidence 
about his whereabouts at time s when Q alleged he sexually harassed her. I denied the 
application to call the other witnesses on th e basis that the evidence Mr. Walker had 
described they would provide was irrelevant to the issues in this complaint. As well, none 
of the witnesses were being called to respond to any ne w or unexpected information 
elicited in the direct examination of Q.  
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
8 [45] Later in the day, and after this ruling, Mr . Walker advised that one witness who 
had been excluded by the earlier ruling (and w ho he also described as his wife) would 
now give evidence about his whereabouts at times when Q alleged he sexually harassed 
her. After hearing from the parties, I allo wed Mr. Walker to call this witness for the 
limited purpose of addressi ng the identified evidence. 
[46] After the completion of Q’s direct exam ination, Mr. Walker cross-examined her 
on behalf of the Respondents. At points dur ing the cross-examination, I directed Mr. 
Walker to cease yelling at Q and to focus on asking relevant questions. I also reminded him that he could not give evidence dur ing Q’s cross-examination, and that any 
comments he had about Q’s evidence should pr operly be given in sworn testimony during 
the Respondents’ case. 
[47] Prior to the end of the hearing day, Q a pplied for an adjournm ent of the hearing 
for the purpose of preparing cross-examina tion of the Respondents’ additional witnesses 
and to prepare a detailed co sts application regarding Mr . Walker’s conduct during the 
course of the proceeding. I denied the application to adjourn the hearing and advised the parties that I would set a schedule for writt en submissions on the costs application. 
[48] At the end of the hearing day, Mr. Walker applied for an adjournment to allow 
him to serve Orders to Attend on his new witnes ses. I denied this application and advised 
Mr. Walker that he should make appropriate  arrangements to serve the Orders to Attend 
to ensure that witnesses were available afte r both he and the police officer had given their 
evidence. Mr. Walker then indicated he would not be available at 9:30 a.m. the next day. 
I advised Mr. Walker that if he was not  present at the 9:30 a.m. scheduled 
commencement time the next day, the hearing would proceed in his absence. 
[49] At 9:30 a.m. the next day, Mr. Walker wa s not in attendance. I stood the hearing 
down for 15 minutes to provide Mr. Walker with time to appear. I also directed the Case 
Manager to determine whether Mr. Walker or anyone on his behalf  had contacted the 
Tribunal to provide an explan ation for his delay or absenc e. No one had contacted the 
Tribunal on his behalf. I was satisfied that the Respondents had notice of the date, time 
and location of the hearing and it proceeded. 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
9 [50] Ms. Frimpong was present to give her eviden ce. In addition to her other evidence, 
which I will review later in this decision, she testified that it had taken her approximately 
two hours to travel to the Tribunal and that sh e was concerned as she had to prepare for a 
test that she was scheduled to take later that day. 
[51] Her evidence was not lengthy. Mr. Walker did not attend to cross-examine her. Q 
closed her case and I adjourned the hearing until 1 p.m. and advised that I would hear 
final argument at that time. The Case Manager contacted Mr. Walker to advise that final 
argument was scheduled for 1 p.m. Mr. Walker  advised the Case Manager that he was 
scheduled to appear in Supreme Court at that time, and that he would not be in 
attendance. Mr. Walker did not apply for an adjournment, and did not submit or provide 
any record confirming any ma tter set down for hearing in  the Supreme Court that 
required his attendance.  
[52] Mr. Walker was not present for the hearing when it resumed at 1 p.m. I was 
satisfied that the Respondents had notice of th e date, time and location of hearing and had 
elected not to attend. The hearing proceeded. 
[53] Q made her final argument. A schedule of  submissions was subsequently set on 
the costs application. I will address that  application later in this decision. 
Other Proceedings  
[54] There were two other legal proceedings involving these parties that had either 
concluded or were ongoing at the date of hearing. The first was a criminal proceeding in which a decision was rendered on November 23, 2011.  
[55] The second proceeding was a civil claim f iled by Mr. Walker against Q in which 
he seeks, amongst other things , damages against her for filing a human rights complaint 
with the Tribunal. A copy of the claim, as  amended, was provided to the Tribunal. 
Witnesses and Credibility  
[56] In assessing credibility, I have  had particular regard to the test set out by the B.C. 
Court of Appeal in Faryna v. Chorny,  [1952] 2 D.L.R. 354: 
In short, the real test of the truth of  the story of a witness in such a case 
must be its harmony with the prepo nderance of the probabilities which a 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
10 practical and informed person would readily recognize as reasonable in 
that place and in those conditions. (page 357)  
[57] I have also considered that I can accep t some, all or none of the evidence of a 
witness.  
[58] Q testified on her own behalf. As noted  earlier, during cross-examination, Mr. 
Walker, from time to time, yelled at her and addressed her disr espectfully. He was 
directed from time to time to lower his voice, and to focus hi s questions on issues 
relevant to the complaint and his response to it. Despite the sometimes forceful style of 
cross-examination, I found Q to remain respectful and responsi ve to the ques tions put to 
her. There were times when her evidence wa s imprecise on matters not germane to this 
complaint. I do not find that this made her re levant evidence unrelia ble. In my view, Q 
was attempting to recall events  as accurately as possible, but there were times when 
certain contextual details had faded from memory. 
[59] I also note that while the evidence dem onstrated a difference of perspective about 
events that occurred in Wash ington State, the focus of th e complaint before the Tribunal 
is on whether Mr. Walker sexua lly harassed Q, and whether he  retaliated against her by 
seeking civil damages for filing a human right s complaint. In that regard, the evidence 
was precise and unshaken on cross-examinat ion. It was generally supported by the 
documentary evidence, and I accept Q’s eviden ce in this regard as reliable. I make no 
findings on whether Q was properly performing  her duties on behalf of Log while in 
Washington State. 
[60] Ms. Gloria Frimpong also tes tified about certain incident s that she witnessed in 
the workplace. Her evidence was not subj ect to cross-examination, despite the 
Respondents having had the opportunity to do so. Q testified that she only knew Ms. 
Frimpong for about five days and did not describe her as a fr iend. I have accepted all of 
Ms. Frimpong’s evidence, and found he r to be a credible witness. 
[61] Mr. Walker did not testify, or call any witnesses on behalf of the Respondents, 
despite being provided the opportunity to do so. 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
11 Evidence  
[62] Q described herself as a bookkeeper. Towards the end of April, 2009, she 
responded to a Craigslist advertisement for a Business Administrator/Trainee with Log, 
dated April 13, 2009.  
[63] Mr. Walker subsequently interviewed her for the position.  Q testified that during 
the interview, he asked how sh e would feel about travelling to other countries, such as 
Finland and Africa, because he had contracts to build log ho mes for the needy in Africa 
and also owned part of three mills in Finla nd. He further advised her that he built log 
homes in Canada and in Washington State. 
[64] Q testified that they also spoke about hours of work. She advised him that she was 
seeking full-time work and testified that th ey agreed she would work 40 hours per week 
at $20 per hour Monday to Friday.  
[65] She also testified that, during the interv iew, Mr. Walker asked her whether she 
was married or had a boyfriend. These questio ns made her feel uncomfortable and she 
shifted the conversation to bookkeeping responsi bilities. Mr. Walker indicated that he 
needed someone to bring the business books up- to-date. He showed her where her office 
would be and she tried to access the accounti ng software. She was unable to do so and 
advised him that it appeared the accounting program has been improperly installed on the 
computer. Q was not challenged on any of th is evidence during cross-examination.  
[66] After the interview, Mr. Walker sent Q the following email: 
I wanted to thank you personally for today’s interview as it was very 
pleasant for me. I do not have any clos e friends but woul d consider it a 
honor if I can call you my friend. My business has expanded so much that I find myself wanting to consider a pa rtner as I have been alone for some 
time now. You could be that part ner if your heart is in it. 
I look forward to your response to ou r meeting and welcome you aboard to 
Wild Log Homes. 
[67] Q testified that she thought the email was “bizarre” but then thought maybe Mr. 
Walker was lonely. She responde d by thanking him for the opportunity to work for him. 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
12 [68] Mr. Walker subsequently emailed her at 11:39 p.m. Sunday night and asked her to 
touch base with him on Monday morning. He provided his cell phone number in the 
email and asked her to “do l unch” if she “was allowed.” 
[69] Q testified that she wondered why Mr. Wa lker wanted to talk to her on Monday, 
since they had agreed she would not be  starting until Tuesday. She also was 
uncomfortable with the reference to “if sh e was allowed” and wondered what he meant 
by that reference. She subseque ntly started work on Tuesday. 
[70] At that time, she met Ms. Frimpong, who performed telemarketing and reception 
duties. Q testified that  she got along well with Ms. Frimpong. She was also informed that 
another woman, who was out of the country, worked in the office. 
[71] Q set up the SIMPLY accounting system on  the computer. She saw Mr. Walker a 
few times during that day. She described it as uneventful until the afternoon when he asked her to help Ms. Frimpong with a brochure mailing. She described Mr. Walker sharing personal life stories with  her, and stating he was going to tell her secrets about his 
life in the military that she should not tell anyone else. He also told her he was from 
Australia, that he was rich and that he woul d consider letting her partner with him. She 
thanked him, but said she was not interested in partnering with him. She interpreted this 
comment to refer to a business partnership. 
[72] On approximately her third day of work, she recalled that she was coming out of 
her office and proceeding down the hallway to Ms. Frimpong’s desk. Mr. Walker was 
walking towards his office in the opposite di rection and, as he passed her, grabbed her 
buttocks and squeezed. She testified that sh e was caught “totally offguard.” She was 
stunned and thought she must ha ve looked stupid. She could not believe Mr. Walker had 
done that and testified th at it took her a few minutes to dige st that he had actually grabbed 
her in that manner. She recalls thinking “did he just do what I think he did?” 
[73] Q recalls that Ms. Frimpong then came up to  her and was “furious” that Q had not 
reacted to being grabbed in  that manner. She recalls feeling stunned and not knowing 
what to do. Inside, she felt that she wanted to tell him off, but she had just started her job 
and didn’t know what to do. She recalled feeling embarrassed. 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
13 [74] Q also testified that, during the wee k, Mr. Walker directed her to make 
telemarketing calls. She had not been aware that  this would be part of her job and was not 
familiar with cold calling. She suggested they  print out a list of companies, and mail 
flyers to those companies about Log’s business. They agreed to do this . She recalls that as 
they were preparing the mailing, Mr. Walker sa id her “you know that I have not had sex 
for twelve weeks.” She recalls Ms. Frim pong chastising him for this comment. She 
considered the comment to be inappropriate  in the workplace and it made her feel 
uncomfortable. Mr. Walker also stated that  he was going to hire a Mexican woman who 
would then fire Q.  
[75] After the first week, Q had conclude d that the job was making her feel 
uncomfortable and she starte d looking for other work.  
[76] The next Monday, on May 4, Q advised Mr. Wa lker that she would call him later 
that morning, and would not be in for wo rk. Ms. Frimpong had advised her that Mr. 
Walker wanted her to persuade Q to have a relationship with him. As a result, she was 
feeling depressed. She agreed in cross-exam ination that she was tracking down a person 
who had written an NSF cheque that day. She al so agreed in cross-examination that there 
were times she advised the office that she woul d not be in to work until after lunch. She 
also stated, however, that there were times she stayed late at work and so would come in 
later in the day.  
[77] Later that day, Q received an email fr om Mr. Walker advising her that the 
bookkeeping position required that she come to work on Monday and Friday, that he 
could not afford for her to work anymor e than that, and that he knew she would 
understand. She interpreted this email as mean ing that her hours were being reduced to 
two days a week. 
[78] Q sent the following email in response: 
It’s been a very stressful day to day and honestly after receiving your 
email, I’m only more depressed a nd not going to bother phoning. I just 
don’t see the point now. I can ’t accept the position. I can not afford to live 
on 1280.00 a month even if I didn’t have any payments, this would not be 
enough to survive. 
thank you. 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
14 [79] Mr. Walker expressed disappoi ntment towards this ema il and advised Q that he 
was available to talk until midnight. 
[80] On May 6, 2009, Mr. Walker emailed Q advising her that the position was still 
open for her. He asked her to “come back, we  miss you” and stated that he would “make 
it up to you. I need you.” 
[81] Q sent the following response: 
Gloria just emailed me. 
several emails today, and she informed me you have been sitting there for 
every one. 
I don’t need her telling me off, and saying you got nothing for your 
money, and I didn’t work for her. I worked for you she has no business saying what she did. 
She also informed me you have a new girl, so why you emailed me I have 
no idea. it’s just games. I said I woul d mail the keys and I will. I told her 
the simply was loaded on your laptop, the same as I had a copy only 
of..there does not need to  be all this hard feelings. I am tired of it. 
[82] Q testified that the reference to “new gi rl” was to a replaceme nt for her position, 
as Gloria had advised her that Mr. Walker had hired a new bookkeeper. I accept that this 
was the intended reference. There is no refere nce to “girlfriend”, though this is how Mr. 
Walker interpreted the reference in the email. 
[83] Mr. Walker responded at 2:23 a.m. the next day with the following email to Q: 
Your hearing this from my heart.  I DO NOT HAVE A NEW 
GIRLFRIEND. Those are Gloria’s words.  
Gloria informs me that you were never in terested in me at all. She tells me 
that you had no intensions of dating me at all. 
If that’s true, I will l ook elsewhere. I do not pl ay games. Maybe you have 
a boyfriend as you spend no time with me. 
This is me now talking to you as I want you to meet me for coffee on your 
turf. You pick the time and place. 
I do not need to inform Gloria, OK. Make it so and we will go from there. 
I told you once that I would not hurt you and I meant that. Don’t believe 
everything you hear from Gloria. If I had a new girlfriend, that’s the first I 
heard of it. 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
15 Gloria is something else. Ever since you left, she has taken over the office. 
I will explain later. 
I can cancel my 10:00 if you want to ge t together. Call me on the mobile 
before I go to the office and I will meet you. 
Do not respond to this, just call me on the mobile. 
[84] In response to questions in cross-examin ation, Q testified that the highlighted 
words were in red. 
[85] The next morning, May 7, Q sent the following reply: 
Where to start? 
When I applied to position, it was for the position only. I had no idea you 
were looking for a mate. I needed em ployment, and that was my intention 
to hopefully get a job where I really  liked what I was doing for work. 
Somewhere along the way, you have wanted to have a relationship, and I 
am not interested in having a relatio nship. I have expressed that several 
times. 
[86] She went on in the email to provide an explanation as to why she needed 
employment commensurate with her qualificatio ns and at an income she could afford to 
live on. She clearly stated that she needed to earn more, and could not work only two 
days a week. 
[87] Mr. Walker sent the following email to Q shortly thereafter: 
When you first came aboard, I was not  so much interested in you. You 
grew on me fast and I was thinking of a business partner as this company 
is getting bigger. i also thought how ni ce it would be to have a relationship 
with you. Your right, I may have put the horse before the cart. Your single, 
good looking and have extra talents in  many ways but I really do not to 
push the relationship just to make you happy. I know you got the experience and are worth $20 a hour plus when you’re doing your book 
keeping but I do not think I can afford that when you do other work. If a 
sale of a log home would go through, th en I would be able to keep you for 
40 hours a week but up unt il that comes, I do n eed to watch the budget. 
You got to ask yourself where would be in 6 months if a sale did not go. 
Your bills would be paid and I will be  sinking and looking  for a job. I need 
to make a sale to pull this company ahead and then I can help you. Gloria is now paid $13.00 per hour but she is very domineering since you left. 
That’s what I meant when I said you threw me to the wolves. She was the 
wolf, not you. 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
16 I do not always explain myself in the manner of what I want to say. Maybe 
I was expecting more from you but I wa s hoping for that special friend that 
one can talk to when needed. I have no one that comes close to a friend. 
Gloria is not a friend, just a employee. She is running out of ideas in sales and I feel may be worried about her j ob. You’re a threat to her now as your 
paid the big money and she feel the struggle. I do not wa nt to tread on 
your toes or cause you any grief because I do care for you even if you do not respond in the same manner. We ha ve a saying in Australia that your 
welcome at my camp fire any time. 
I know where our relation is now goi ng but business decisions and how I 
felt about you were two different issues . I’m very sorry all this came about 
but in time you might have changed your mind. I needed you in the business aspect but Gloria did not wa nt you back. Do I r un the business or 
Gloria. She is a wolf in disguise. I better not say any more. If there is 
anything I can do for you, just let me know and I will see what I can do. I 
do have feelings even its one wa y. Your special in my heart. 
I will have coffee with you any day and I will buy and chalk it up to a 
business expense with a receipt. If you’re not coming back, I will need to 
get somebody in here to do the 2008 and 2009 simple accounting. I do want to hear more from you. 
[88] Q subsequently spoke to Mr. Walker, met him at a Starbucks and advised him that 
she did not like his advances, that she was not  interested in a relationship with him and 
that she just wanted a job. He agreed to stop behaving that like, stat ed that he had been 
alone for many years, that he valued her as an employee and wanted her back. She 
testified that she believed what he said and agreed to come back to work. 
[89] Q subsequently returned to work for Mr . Walker. She was introduced to the other 
office employee, Ms. Sandra Klynsoon, who had returned from her holiday. The morning 
of her first day back, Ms. Frimpong was fired.  
[90] Q testified that she brainstormed with Mr . Walker that day about how they might 
increase sales. She advised Mr. Walker a bout a family she knew in Washington State 
who logged and made loans to contractors at hi gh interest rates, a nd indicated she could 
speak to them. Mr. Walker advised her that he  owned part of a mill in Portland and they 
agreed that she should visit the family a nd make inquiries about potential business 
ventures. Mr. Walker app eared excited about this. 
[91] Q went to Washington Stat e, looked at possible building lots and met with the 
family. The family requested such things as a business plan, market research and costing, 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
17 prior to deciding whethe r to invest with Mr. Walker. Q was optimistic, however, that a lot 
could be obtained and a log home built and sold by the company with a substantial loan from the family. 
[92] On Sunday, May 10, 2009 at 1:40 a.m., Mr. Walker sent Q the following email: 
I know it’s your w eekend but I need to speak to  you. Please call me. Thank 
you. 
[93] Q subsequently returned to the office and met with Mr. Walker. She advised him 
what had occurred during the tip. She testifie d that Mr. Walker appeared excited about 
the potential business prospect. She then went outside to have a cigarette and Mr. Walker 
went outside with her. When they were outsi de, and after he expressed excitement about 
the potential business, he kissed her. She reacted by saying “what the hell do you think 
you are doing”. Q further testified that she said  to him that he had promised her he would 
not do this, that he apologized profusely, begge d her not to quit and said he was “just so 
excited about getting the potential loan.” 
[94] Q testified that she subsequently returned  to Washington. She continued to receive 
emails from Mr. Walker at all hours of th e day and night, some of which referenced 
personal matters. She testified that Mr. Walker  began to express anxi ety about the project 
and she began to receive incomplete or inaccu rate information from him. For example, on 
Tuesday, May 12, 2009, Mr. Walker sent Q the following email: 
I enclose the Greek plans and pictures  to remind of what they go too. Do 
not do a thing about the pricing. I ha d a wrong page and could not work it 
out. I do not miss you just my book keeper. The figures are correct. The sign will be installed by us if the ho mes are being sold at our cost. If the 
client is making a terrific profit on it, then he can pay. 
I do not have any words for you but do take care. 
[95] On Wednesday, May 13, 2009 at 12:14 a.m ., Mr. Walker sent Q the following 
email: 
I waited until midnight for a reply from  you but I guess it was not in the 
cards. I will expect a repo rt tomorrow. Good nite. 
[96] Q testified that she subsequently found a lot, which an offer was put on with a 30day feasibility clause to determine if the lo t was buildable. When she was in the office 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
18 with Mr. Walker discussing the offer a nd showing him some information on the 
computer, she testified that he leaned over her and poked her breasts asking if they were 
real. She testified that  she swung her arm back and swore at him.  
[97] Later that day, as they were looking at dr awings, he referred to renting one hotel 
room with two beds, rather th an two rooms, if they travelled to Finland together for 
business. Q told Mr. Walker that if he expected her to go on a business trip, she would need a separate room or she would not go. 
[98] After a further trip to the States and retu rn the office, another incident occurred 
with Mr. Walker. Q testified that, on that occas ion, as she left the office to walk to her 
car, Mr. Walker followed her. Sh e spoke to him about the trip  and then got into her car, 
which was a convertible. As sh e prepared to leave, Mr. Wa lker leaned over and kissed 
her again. She described it as a “pop” on her lips. She says she got angry and drove away. She described driving rapidly, with her leg trembling. She ultimately stopped the car and 
took time to calm down. She described being ve ry upset about her work situation and the 
potential business de al in Washington. 
[99] On Tuesday, May 26, 2009 at 10:44 p.m., Mr. Walker sent Q an email which, 
after commenting on a business matter, contained the following: 
FOR YOUR EYES ONLY PERSONAL NOTE 
I’m not an easy person to express my self in words like you, as your still 
excited. I have feeling for you that I must remain hidden from you so the business stays on track. I know you know that, or you would not have let 
me get away with kissing you. I’m sorry  for taking liberti es but you excite 
me, not the sale. I must tell you this, you have blown me away. Nobody has ever done anything lik e this for me before. I l ook at this as we both 
needed bailing out of a situation. I helped you and you helped me, but your 
is much deeper and I will never forget . I said my say, whether it goes in 
your heart or mind, you know how I f eel. You don’t know what it means 
for me to have you as my best frie nd as you have many. You are my true 
blue friend and that will never change in our lives. 
Thank you for being there for me 
[100]  Q responded to the business aspects of  that email at 11:48 pm, and then 
commented: 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
19 I am glad you are happy. we have a good opportunity here. I think we will 
work great together. I will let you know  more as I know more and the day 
ends. 
off to sleep now 
[101]  She testified that she deci ded not to respond to the pe rsonal comments in Mr. 
Walker’s email but focused on the business aspect of it. 
[102]  By the end of May, an offer had been put  on the property. Q briefly described 
difficulties in her relationship with Mr. Walk er obtaining accurate costing and pricing, 
and various problems bringi ng the project to fruition. 
[103]  On Wednesday, June 3, 2009 at 1:22 pm, Mr. Walker sent the following email to 
Q: 
I’m back to chat with you and we need  to work this out together. YES! i 
want you to continue in your project and find another property. I think you 
are doing a great job but due to the previous expe riences, i had had in the 
past on the sales of the log homes. 
I find it difficult to share my business with anybody that is close to me but 
I will try very hard to improve it. I do not need to put excess pressure on 
you as I know your under a lot of pressu re. I will make it up to you some 
way an do hope you forgive me for straying out of bounds with you. If there is anything that we can do to make your job easier, I will do what I 
can immediately. Sanders says Business relationships takes time to grow and I hope we all are on the right road and take the journey together. I do hope see you in the future. Go with Phil and see what he is interested in. I 
do trust you in your job or I would no t have believed in you. Do you have 
Orphan Annie outfit on. Ha, HA. 
[104]  Q explained that Mr. Walker  would make fun of the way she dressed and that she 
was offended by his reference to looking like Or phan Annie. She also testified that, on 
occasion, Mr. Walker would end a telephone co nversation with “love you” and that she 
would hang up. 
[105]  Two days later, on Friday, June 5 at 8: 38 a.m., Mr. Walker sent Q the following 
email: 
You have terminated your position so I will ask for the return of the keys 
to my office. I will also ask for the re turn of any outstanding monies that 
you did not pay out. The return of the drawings must be returned along 
with all receipts. The retu rn of all documents that is related to Wild Log 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
20 Homes and any other prope rty that you have in your possession. You have 
until Monday, 8th June 2009 at 9:00 a.m. I will except no excuses as its 
your dead line. 
[106]  At 12:26 pm that same day, he se nt a further email which read: 
I did really appreciate what you di d as I told you many many time before 
that I had no words for you as you just  blew me away. I cannot say things 
in the proper words that you want to h ear. I merely express myself in my 
way. I told you I’m not suited for this job as I’m better in the field constructing the homes and doing your job with the contractors. When I 
tell you how I truly feel about, you cl aim I get muss so I say nothing and 
you still complain. I do not know what  you want from me as I feel I 
walked in your shoes. You were the back bone to this company but I had no control. You did have it all, stre ssed out and all. You did know it was 
effecting us as you were never here. 
You acquired me of wiping out words on the quote but that is their English 
broken. I changed nothing. You got it as  it came to me. You talked about 
me being secretive and blocking your moves. I ever got my answers so 
who was being secretive to who. You were doing a top job but I had no control with you. We gave you everyt hing you asked for and a lot more. 
I know you are stressed out as this job is not suited for you at all. Sandra 
and I will get support elsewhere in Wh istler some how. You take your rest 
and maybe your next j ob will be easier for you. 
Your job here was above and beyond the call of duty and I was proud of 
you. more than you think. You inspired me beyond the words that you’re looking for. You were the role model for the company and the best in the 
field. I would be glad to give you a letter of recommendation towards your 
next position. I regret having to lose you but such is life. I did my best to 
work with you and you know it. You know  how I feel towards you so why 
do I need to express myself to you Your embarrassing me by putting 
words for you that I cannot get out to you. 
I have not had a relationship for 12 years and your asking for words of 
appreciation that I have forgotten. I told you how I feel, that should be 
enough. Don’t you understand that. It’s not  easy for me to express myself. 
You are my idol. I worship the grou nd that you walk on and admire your 
inner strength but we walk together and not alone in di fferent directions. 
[107]  At 12:29 pm that day, Mr. Walker sent Q an email with an advertisement attached 
to it. She responded to him at 12:54 pm by as king why he was sending it to her as she did 
not work there anymore.  
[108]  At 1:08 pm that day, Q sent Mr. Walker an email as follows: 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
21 bottom line this is devastating. I worked myself to the ground for you, and 
you just dismissed it because your ego won’t let you admit you are wrong..you just keep blaming me. 
Since you don’t want me, I’m going to look into doing this myself..good 
luck to you. 
I’m off your clock now remember. I will go where I am appreciated. maybe do not hire someone who is so motivated as I am, because that 
threatens you and you will only fire yet another person. 
[109]  At 4:43 pm, Mr. Walker responded to Q’ s email about the advertisement by 
stating that he thought she might  to look at it as she was “s till a team player...one for all 
and all for one..where is your spirit.” 
[110]  Q then sent an email to Ms. Klynsoon at 5:05 pm that day: 
Sandra are you there in the office now...do you know why is he sending 
me this kind of email...he is just taunting me now. I lose my job and he says I’m still a team member...I feel like I am losing my mind, like I am all 
alone in this twisted saga. I don’t know how much more I can take. I’m 
really stressed out. I’m maxed, and he  just keeps up with all these emails 
and wanting a relationship etc. now this tonight. 
[111]  The result of the foregoing interactions  was that Q ceased employment with Log. 
[112]  In cross-examination, Q gave the follo wing additional ev idence about her 
employment experience with Log and Mr. Walker: 
a) Mr. Walker was in the office on the occasions she said that he was in the 
office. 
b) When Mr. Walker told her in an email that she was special in his heart, she 
understood him to be saying that he had emotional feelings for her. 
c) Mr. Walker refused to provide her acce ss to all the paperw ork necessary to 
complete the accounting and assigned her to assist Gloria.  
d) Mr. Walker advised her he was uncomfortable sharing paperwork with 
her. 
e) Mr. Walker’s emails to her in the middle of the night made her 
uncomfortable. 
f) Mr. Walker instructed her to put an  offer on the Washington property. He 
called the realtor to close the deal. He  then decided he did not want the 
property. 
g) The four incidents described by her (the buttock gra bbing, two kisses and 
breast poking) all occurre d as she testified.  
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
22 Criminal Proceeding  
[113]  Q stated that shortly after these events, she was advised that Mr. Walker had made 
a report to the RCMP that she had stolen m oney from him and was trying to have her 
arrested. She subsequently spoke with a police officer and explained what had been going on at work. She felt that Mr. Walker had made  up the allegations out of revenge toward 
her and that he had been harassing her. 
[114]  Q testified that she was terrified and hi red a lawyer. She had never been involved 
in something like that before. She testified th at she returned all company property to the 
lawyer, who made arrangements for Mr. Walker  to pick it up. He refused to do so. She 
was never charged with any criminal offence and testified that she was informed there 
was no theft. She says she was also advised by the police officer that what she had described constituted a sexual assault and she should look into filing charges. She did so, and Mr. Walker was subsequently charge d with four counts of sexual assault. 
[115]  A hearing into the criminal charge s was scheduled for November 2010. Mr. 
Walker was acquitted of the charges. 
Civil Proceeding  
[116]  In July 2009, Mr. Walker filed a civil cl aim against Q. The action commenced in 
small claims court, but was subsequen tly moved to the B.C. Supreme Court. 
[117]  Since at least December 2010, Mr. Walker has sought civil damages against Q for 
amounts he says he expended in de fending against this complaint. 
[118]  On June 22, 2011, Mr. Walker filed an Amended Notice of Civil Claim in the 
Supreme Court of British Columbia in which he sought, amongst other things, the 
following remedy as against Q: 
The recovery of the amount of $13,000.00 that the Plaintiff expended in 
defending a Human Rights Tribunal action that the Defendant Q brought 
against the Plaintiff, which action proved to be groundless. 
[119]  On October 5, 2011, Mr. Walker filed a Noti ce of Application to Amend his Civil 
Claim in which, amongst other things, he in creased the recovery sought against Q to 
$15,000.00.  
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
23 [120]  I was provided a further Notice of Appli cation to Amend the Civil Claim, date 
stamped November 4, 2011, in which, amongst other things, Mr. Walker increased the 
recovery sought against Q to $16,868.93. The status  of that applicati on was not clarified 
in the evidence. 
Evidence of Ms. Gloria Frimpong  
[121]  Ms. Frimpong worked for Log for approximately two months. She worked for a 
brief period of time with Q, po ssibly two or three weeks.  
[122]  Ms. Frimpong testified that her job desc ription changed every day. One day she 
would be an office manager, the next a recep tionist. She said that  these changes were 
reflected in her pay and were dependent on Mr. Walker’s mood. If he was angry, Ms. 
Frimpong was a receptionist.  
[123]  Ms. Frimpong described witnessing Mr. Walker grab Q’s buttocks as she was 
walking down the office hallway. She was sh ocked at what she sa w and asked Q if he 
really grabbed her buttocks. Q replied that he had.  
[124]  Ms. Frimpong also testified that Mr. Wa lker would often make comments of a 
sexual and inappropriate nature in front of he r and others in the office. She recalled that 
he told her that he liked Q and wanted to know if she liked him. She testified that he 
asked her to feel Q out to see if Q liked him and whether his feelings  were being returned. 
She said that this inquiry had nothing to do with business, but was personal. 
[125]  Ms. Frimpong also testified that Mr. Walk er maintained that he did not have a 
wife, when in fact he did. She further testif ied that Mr. Walker w ould not provide certain 
documents to Q in order to allo w her to do her accounting duties. 
[126]  Ms. Frimpong kept a diary. After she sa w Mr. Walker grab Q’s buttocks, she 
spoke to her pastor, who was also a lawyer  and friend, and asked for advice as she felt 
what she had witnessed was wrong. She wa s advised to keep a record of any 
inappropriate comments or conduct she witnes sed. She did so. However, after she was 
fired, she threw it away. 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
24 [127]  Ms. Frimpong testified that it took her two hours to get to the Tribunal’s offices. 
She had to wake up her baby at 5 am to ge t the baby to childcare, take public 
transportation and then prepare to write an exam later in the day.  
Impact  
[128]  Q was emotional during the hearing and often cried. At one point she became 
physically ill and had to leave the hearing room. It was eviden t that her interactions with 
Mr. Walker were having an ongoing em otional and physical impact on her. 
[129]  Q described her life as like being a roller coaster. She testified that every day she 
is depressed. All she wanted was to get a good job and since meeting Mr. Walker, she 
describes her life as a living hell. She said she worked for approximately one month for 
him and now has no peace in her life. She testif ied that he has filed a civil claim against 
her and there is always something new arrivi ng in the mail that she must respond to. She 
estimates there have been over 50 applicatio ns filed in the B.C. Supreme Court by him 
that she has dealt with and that it is ove rwhelming for her. She feels stalked by him 
through the legal system. 
[130]  She lives alone, is her sole support, is terrifie d of Mr. Walker and is exhausted. 
She wants her life back, and says that she now she lives in a constant state of anxiety. She 
testified that she has panic attacks, feels li ke she can’t breathe a nd is going to vomit.  
LEGAL ANALYSIS AND DECISION  
Sexual Harassment Complaint  
[131]  Q filed a complaint of discrimination base d on sex (sexual harassment), contrary 
to s. 13 of the Code, which provides, in part: 
(1) A person must not  
(a) refuse to employ or refuse to  continue to employ a person, or  
(b) discriminate against a person regarding employment or any term 
or condition of employme nt because of … sex...  
…  
(4) Subsections (1) and (2) do not a pply with respect to a refusal, 
limitation, specification or pref erence based on a bona fide 
occupational requirement. 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
25 [132]  The onus is on Q to establish, on a balance of probabilities, th at the Respondents, 
or any of them, discriminated against her on the basis of sex (sexual harassment). 
[133]  Sexual harassment is a form  of sex discrimination: Janzen v. Platy Enterprises 
Ltd., [1989] 1 S.C.R. 1252, [1989] S.C.J. No. 41 (Q.L.). The Supreme Court of Canada 
defines sexual harassment broadly as:  
… unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature  that detrimenta lly affects the 
work environment or leads to advers e job-related consequences for the 
victims of harassment. It is…an abus e of power. When sexual harassment 
occurs in the workplace,  it is an abuse of bot h economic and sexual power. 
Sexual harassment is a demeaning pract ice, one that constitutes a profound 
affront to the dignity of the employees  forced to endure it…. (para. 56)  
[134]  The Court went on to quote with approva l the following descriptions of sexual 
harassment:  
…Sexual harassment is a ny sexually-oriented pract ice that endangers an 
individual’s continued employment, negatively affects his/her work 
performance, or undermines his/ her sense of personal dignity…  
…Harassment behaviour may manifest itself blatantly in forms such as 
leering, grabbing, and even sexual assault. More subtle forms of sexual harassment may include innuendos, and propositions for dates or sexual favours…. (para. 49)  
[135]  The Supreme Court of Canada also commen ted on the scope of circumstances that 
might constitute sexual harassment:  
…Sexual harassment is not limited to demands for sexual favours made 
under threats of adverse job consequences should the employee fail to 
comply with the demands. Victims of  harassment need not demonstrate 
that they were not hired, were denied a promotion or were dismissed from their employment as a result of thei r refusal to participate in sexual 
activity. This form of harassment, in which the victim suffers concrete economic loss for failing to submit to sexual demands, is simply one manifestation of sexual harassment, albe it a particularly blatant and ugly 
one. Sexual harassment also encompa sses situations in which sexual 
demands are foisted upon unwilling employees or in which employees must endure sexual groping, propositions, and inappropriate comments, but where no tangible economic rewards are attached to involvement in the 
behaviour (para. 52).  
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
26 [136]  The test for determining whether conduct is unwelcome is an objective one:  
would a reasonable person, taking into accoun t all the circumstances, know that the 
comments or conduct were unwelcome.  
[137]  In Mahmoodi v. University of British Columbia (1999), 36 C.H.R.R. D/8 
(B.C.H.R.T.); petition for judicial review  dismissed 2001 BCSC 1256, the Tribunal set 
out the following considerations when a ssessing whether conduct is unwelcome: 
i) A complainant is not required to ex pressly object unless the respondent 
would reasonably have no reas on to suspect it was unwelcome; 
ii) Behaviour may be both tolerated and unwelcome; 
iii) Not only overt, but also  subtle indications of unwelcomeness may be 
sufficient to communicate that  conduct is unwelcome; and 
iv) The reasons for submitting to conduct may be closely related to the 
power differential between the pa rties and the implied understanding 
that lack of co-operation could re sult in some form of disadvantage. 
(paras. 140-141). 
[138]  Q says that the following conduct constitutes sexual harassment: 
a) asking  whether she had a boyfrie nd during the inte rview process; 
b) grabbing her buttocks; 
c) kissing her on two occasions; 
d) poking her breasts; 
e) professing feelings for her in emails and in conversation. 
[139]  She notes that, in an email to her, Mr . Walker apologized fo r “taking liberties” 
with her, and that this suppor ts a conclusion that she was su bjected to sexual harassment. 
She says that while she initially did not sp eak out about these inappropriate comments 
and conduct, she then began to protest and asked him to stop. Mr. Walker agreed to do so, but did not. 
[140]  Q says that any reasonable person woul d know, or ought to have known, that the 
identified behaviour was unwelcome, and that Mr. Walker was expres sly advised that it 
was unwelcome and still did not stop. 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
27 [141]  Q says that Ms. Frimpong noted in her ev idence that Mr. Walker had expressly 
asked her to inquire whether Q liked him, and that Mr. Frimpong confirmed the buttocks 
incident. 
[142]  I accept that Mr. Walker made inappropria te inquiries and comments about Q in 
pursuit of an intimate relationship with her. In reaching this conclusion, I note that Mr. 
Walker should not have inquired about wh ether or not Q had a boyfriend or husband 
during the interview. Such an inquiry was entirely irrelevant  to assessing her suitability 
for the advertised position. However, on its own, such a comment may not be sufficient 
to sustain a complaint of discrimination. Furt her details of the c ontext of the comment 
would be necessary to re ach such a conclusion. 
[143]  However, this comment was not an isolat ed one. Rather, it was the beginning of 
Mr. Walker’s pursuit of Q, and her c ontinued rejection of his advances.  
[144]  I find that Mr. Walker physically touched Q in an inappropriate manner. I accept 
Q’s evidence that she was shocked and wondere d if the incident had actually occurred. 
She didn’t know how to react initially. Such a reaction is consistent with the unexpected nature of the contact and its marked incongruence with appropriate workplace conduct. I do not consider her lack of co mment at the time of the incident to change the nature of 
this interaction. Any reasonable person would have known that such conduct was 
unwelcome, and there was no evidence that Q indicated that such conduct was welcome. 
[145]  After this encounter, and its confirma tion by Ms. Frimpong, Q began to express 
her discomfort to Mr. Walker  and asked him to stop his be haviour. He did not. He kissed 
her on two occasions. I find he also poked her br easts and asked if they were real. Again, 
any reasonable person would have known that such conduct in the work environment, 
absent explicit consent, would be unwelcome.  
[146]  In this case, however, Q expressed her discontent to the kisses and touching. I 
have considered that Mr. Walker was excited about a potential sale and that at least one 
of the kisses may have been ma de within this context. However, I also note that Mr. 
Walker stated in an email to Q that it was sh e who excited him and not  the project. In any 
event, such an emotional reaction to a busin ess matter does not justify Mr. Walker taking 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
28 inappropriate physical liberties wi th an employee, such as by kissing Q, particularly when 
she had indicated to him that she di d not want an intimate relationship.  
[147]  In my view, the impugned conduct is demonstr ative of the very type of situation 
that the Code ’s prohibition on sexual harassment is de signed to prevent. Mr. Walker was 
in a position of authority ove r Q. He used his business, and her economic vulnerability 
within the employment relationship, to furt her his personal, romantic interests towards 
her and to “take liberties” with her. Th is had a detrimental effect on her work 
environment. I accept that Q found it difficu lt to come into work, and became anxious 
and upset. 
[148]  I find that she ultimately left her employme nt because of this situation. This is 
supported by the Respondents’ statement in th eir response to complaint that Q quit her 
employment and an email sent by Mr. Walk er to Q in which he stated that she  terminated 
her employment.  
[149]  Considering the comments and conduct as  a whole, I find that Mr. Walker 
engaged in persistent and ongoing sexual hara ssment of Q, which he knew or ought to 
have known was unwelcome, and that such cond uct had a detrimental effect on her work 
environment.  
[150]  Q has proven, on a balance of probabilities, that Mr. Walker sexually harassed her 
in her employment and that it made her work place intolerable for her. By virtue of s. 
44(2) the Code, Log is also liable for th e conduct of Mr Walker. 
[151]  Q’s complaint of discrimination in her employment, based on sex, contrary to s. 
13 of the Code, is justified. 
Retaliation Complaint  
[152]  Q has also filed a complaint pur suant to secti on 43 of the Code, which  states:  
A person must not evict, discharge, suspend, expel, intimidate, coerce, 
impose any pecuniary or other penalty  on, deny a right or benefit to or 
otherwise discriminate against a person because that person complains or is named in a complaint, gives evidence or otherwise assists in a complaint or other proceeding under this Code.  
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
29 [153]  Complaints filed under s. 43 of the Code are commonly referred to as retaliation 
complaints. In Bissonnette v. School Di strict No. 62 and Frizzell , 2006 BCHRT 447, the 
Tribunal summarized the elements necessary  to prove retaliation as follows: 
In order to establish a co mplaint under s. 43 of the Code , a complainant 
must establish:  
• That a previous complaint has been made under the Code and that the 
respondent was aware of the complaint: Cariboo Chevrolet Pontiac 
Buick GMC Ltd. v. Becker , 2006 BCSC 43, at paras. 47-55;  
• That the respondent engaged in or th reatened to engage in retaliatory 
conduct; and  
• That the respondent intended to engage in that conduct or can 
reasonably have been perceived to have engaged in that conduct in 
retaliation, with the el ement of reasonable perception being assessed 
from the point of view of a reasonable complainant: Talkkari v. City of 
Burnaby and others , 2005 BCHRT 68, at paras. 42-49; Mathison v. 
Musqueam Indian Band and Easton (No. 3) , 2006 BCHRT 429, at para. 
22. (para. 19) 
[154]  Q says that Mr. Walker’s attempts to recover legal costs against her in a civil 
claim constitutes retaliation under the Code. She says that her complaint had been filed, 
and Mr. Walker had notice of it, and that he amended his civil claim to seek recovery of 
these costs. She says that any reasonable complainant would perceive such conduct to 
constitute retaliation for filing a human rights complaint. 
[155]  I agree with Q. In my view, the filing of  a civil claim seeking damages for filing a 
human rights complaint is a clear , substantive and particularly chilling type of retaliatory 
conduct against a complainant. 
[156]  The Code does not contain an express provision  for either a complainant or a 
respondent to recover legal fees in the event of a successful or unsu ccessful complaint. It 
does, however, contain a mechanism for a responde nt to apply to dismiss a complaint if it 
considers the complaint was filed for an improper motive or made in bad faith. Mr. Walker did not file such an application until shortly before the hearing of this complaint. He was invited to pursue the application in  evidence and argument, but did not do so. It 
was also open to him to file an application for costs for improper conduct during the course of the complaint if he considered that  Q had engaged in such conduct. He did not 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
30 do so. In short, Mr. Walker did not avail himsel f of these processes that were available to 
him under the Code, despite having the opportunity to do so. 
[157]  Instead, he chose to seek damages in a B.C. Supreme Court proceeding which, I 
note, has been filed not only against Q, but also against her witness in this proceeding, 
Ms. Frimpong. He has subjected Q to numerous court applications in  respect of that 
claim. I also note that he demonstrated cl ear hostility towards her while he was in 
attendance at the hearing, and repeatedly  referred to the Supreme Court claim. 
[158]  In my view, any reasonable person, and particularly any reasonable complainant, 
would consider the filing of such a claim, in these circumstances, to be retaliation for 
filing the complaint. It could also reasonably been seen as an attempt to curtail pursuit of it. Such conduct may properly be characterized as intimidation or, if successful, as the 
imposition of a penalty for filing a complain t. Under either characterization, it is 
retaliatory. 
[159]  I find that Q has proven retaliati on, contrary to s. 43 of the Code, on a balance of 
probabilities. The retaliation complaint is justified against Mr. Walker. 
Remedy  
[160]  Having found the s. 13 complaint to be ju stified against both Respondents, and the 
retaliation complaint justified against Mr. Wa lker, I will now addr ess the appropriate 
remedies pursuant to s. 37(2) of the Code.   
Cease the Contravention  
[161]  An order under s. 37(2)(a) is mandatory when a finding is made that a complaint 
is justified. Therefore, I orde r Log and Mr. Walker to cease the contravention and refrain 
from committing the same or similar contraventions. 
[162]  Since I have ordered Mr. Walker to cease and desist his retaliatory conduct 
against Q, she is free to bring this order to the attention of the B.C. Supreme Court in respect of that part of th e civil claim against her. 
 
 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
31 Declaration  
[163]  Q requests a declaration pursu ant to s. 37(2)(b) that the Respondents’  conduct is 
discrimination contrary to the Code  and it is so declared. In  this regard, I note that 
retaliation is defined as  discrimination under the Code and therefore no separate 
declaration is necessary in that regard. 
Damages for Injury, Dignity, Feelings and Self-Respect  
[164]  Pursuant to s. 37(2)(d)(iii) of the Code , the Tribunal has the discretion to award Q 
damages for injury to her digni ty, feelings and self-respect. 
[165]  In Fougere v. Rallis and Kalamata Greek Taverna (No. 1), at para. 133, the 
Tribunal set out the following non-exhaustive factors for consideration when assessing 
damages for injury to dignity, feelings and self-respect in a se xual harassment case: 
i) The nature of the harassment, that is, was it simply verbal or was it 
physical as well? 
ii) The degree of aggressiveness and ph ysical contact of the harassment; 
iii) The ongoing nature, that is, the time period of the harassment; 
iv) The frequency of the harassment; 
v) The age of the complainant; 
vi) The vulnerability of the complainant; and 
vii) The psychological impact of the harassment on the complainant. 
[166]  In this case, the sexual harassment was both verbal and physical. It was somewhat 
aggressive, and it was ongoing and relatively fre quent. Q is an older woman, and able to 
speak up for herself in the workplace. She was not timid in that regard. However, she was in a position of economic vulnerability an d Mr. Walker took advantage of that 
vulnerability. Ultimately, Q was left in the position of seeking alternate employment. 
[167]  I am persuaded that there was a signifi cant psychological impact on Q, both as a 
result of the sexual harassment and the reta liatory conduct. Q per ceives Mr. Walker’s 
conduct to constitute the stal king of her within the lega l system. She is continually 
reminded of the distress of that workplace envi ronment, and cannot put  it behind her. She 
described experiencing anxiety, depression and panic attacks. She was distraught at times 
throughout the proceedings. While there was no medical evidence submitted on her 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
32 behalf, I accept that the emotional impact of this situation on her has been real, 
substantive and ongoing. 
[168]  I consider the ongoing impact on Q to be  particularly egregious. Taking into 
consideration all of the ci rcumstances, and recognizing that Q has proven both a 
complaint of discrimination and retaliation, I make the following orders for damages for injury to dignity, feelings and self-respect. 
[169]  Pursuant to s. 37( 2)(d)(iii) of the Code,  I order Log and Mr. Walker, jointly and 
severally, to pay to Q the amount of $7,500.00 as damages fo r injury to dignity, feelings 
and self-respect in respect of the s. 13 compla int of discrimination. In this regard, I note 
that in McIntosh v. Metro Aluminum Products and another , 2011 BCHRT 34 , the 
Tribunal awarded damages $12,500.00 to the co mplainant for damages for injury to 
dignity, feelings and self-respec t. In that case, the complainant had been subjected to 
repeated sexually harassing texts. She experi enced stress, anxiety and had a pre-existing 
medical condition that was affected by stress.  The evidence of impact in this case, 
flowing from the sexual harassment, is not as egregious as in that case, and is 
unsupported by medical evidence. These consid erations are reflected in my award. 
[170]  In addition, pursuant to s.  37(2)(d)(iii) of the Code, I order Mr. Walker to pay Q 
the amount of $8,000.00 as damages for injury to dignity, feelings and self-respect in 
respect of the s. 43 complaint of retaliation. In this regard, I have  considered that in 
Clarke v. Frenchies Montreal Sm oked Meats and Blais (No. 2), 2007 BCHRT 153, the 
Tribunal awarded $7,500.00 as damages for injury  to dignity, feelings  and self-respect 
arising out of the respondent’s  retaliatory conduct. The Tribunal also noted that, had it 
been requested, it would have  been inclined to order a substantially higher award. 
[171]  In that case, the respondent had sought to intimidate the complainant in an effort 
to make her fearful to pursue her compla int. His conduct was also disruptive and 
disrespectful during the hearing process. Similar factors are operative in this case. In 
addition, the significant  detrimental effect on Q, incl uding the ongoing em otional impact, 
is reflected in my award. 
 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
33 COSTS APPLICATION  
[172]  Q has filed an application for costs to be  awarded against Mr. Walker on the basis 
that he engaged in improper conduct dur ing the course of this complaint. 
[173]  Pursuant to s. 37(4) of the Code, the Tribunal has the discretion to award costs as 
follows:  
The member or panel may award costs  
(a) against a party to a complaint who has engaged in improper conduct 
during the course of the complaint, and  
(b) without limiting paragraph (a), agai nst a party who contravenes a rule 
under section 27.3(2) or an or der under section 27.3(3).  
[174]  Q says that the following conduct was improper: 
a) Failing to produce relevant documents in accordance with the Tribunal’s 
March 29, 2010 order; 
b) Failing to produce a list of witnesses in accordance with the schedule set 
by the Tribunal; 
c) Falsely asserting that he had not received any documents from Q when, in 
fact, documents had been delivered  to him by Q’s former counsel; 
d) Making offensive and unsubstantiated statements about Q and her 
witnesses in correspondence to the Tribunal and during the hearing; 
e) Waiting until the eve of hearing to bring an application to dismiss the 
complaint; 
f) Unnecessarily prolonging the heari ng with irrelevant  arguments and 
bringing repeated applications, at  least one of which was unnecessary 
since he failed to call any evidence; 
g) Failing to attend to cross-exam ine Ms. Frimpong after opposing the 
application for her to give evidence by telephone; 
h) Failing to heed the Tribuna l’s warnings to use respectful language, refrain 
from giving evidence or yelling at Q; 
i) Applying to call witnesses on matters irrelevant to the complaint; 
j) Failing to call any of those witnesses after bringing a successful 
application to be allowed to call despite not having identified them on his witness list; and 
k) Repeatedly bringing applications to ad journ the hearing so he could attend 
the B.C. Supreme Court civil claim he filed against Q. 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
34 [175]  In response, Mr. Walker objects to any or der for costs and says he intends to 
apply to the Supreme Court for judicial revi ew of any decision awarding costs against 
him. He threatened to lay charges against “the guilty parties” for “lying to the RCMP, 
Crown, Criminal Court and Huma n Rights”. He also indicated that he has filed a civil 
claim against both Q and Ms. Frimpong (who was a witness in the hearing before the Tribunal), as well as other persons. 
[176]  In support of his submission, Mr. Walker submitted an affidavit dated January 23, 
2012 that was filed in the New Westminster Ci vil Registry in the context of the civil 
claim. In that affidavit, he asserts that Q and Ms. Frimpong both lied to the Tribunal. On 
the evidence before me, I have found otherwise.  
[177]  Mr. Walker also asserted in his affidavit that he has evidence that he was not on 
the work premises on certain dates when the sexual harassment was alleged. I note, 
however, that he declin ed to call the witnesses he said  would confirm his whereabouts 
elsewhere, and that he declin ed to give any evidence himself. He also attached to the 
affidavit documents which he had refused to  provide to Q prior to the hearing, in 
contravention of the Tribunal’s order, and th at, as a result, he ha d been precluded from 
introducing into evidence at  the hearing. The documents produced by him in support of 
this submission could easily have been pr ovided to Q well before the commencement of 
the hearing, and in compliance with th e Tribunal’s directions and order. 
[178]  In response, Q asserts that Mr. Walker ’s submissions about false testimony are 
serious, inflammatory, baseless  and without any factual or  evidentiary foundation. She 
says this submission is anothe r example of improper conduct. As well, she says that Mr. 
Walker’s threat of legal action against bot h herself and the witness is improper.  
[179]  As noted earlier in this decision, I found Q to be a credible witness. Her evidence 
was supported by emails written by Mr. Walk er. Mr. Walker was not present during the 
evidence of Ms. Frimpong, and has no direct knowledge of any of the evidence given by 
her. He also declined to avail himself of th e opportunity to subject her evidence to crossexamination. I found Ms. Frimpong to be a credib le witness. The statements made by Mr. 
Walker in his submission and affidavit in regard to either of these witnesses lying or giving “false evidence” before the Tribunal are contrary to my findings in this complaint. 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
35 [180]  The Tribunal has found in numerous othe r cases that a failure to abide by 
Tribunal’s rules, directions and or ders constitutes improper conduct: Rusiecki v. B.C. 
Rubber Supply, 2007 BCHRT 429; Bedard v. Continental Steel, 2008 BCHRT 351; 
Samuda v. Olympic Industries, 2009 BCHRT 65.  
[181]  In this case, Mr. Walker repeatedly re fused to produce documents in accordance 
with the Tribunal’s orders. He also failed to  produce a list of witnesses in accordance 
with the Tribunal’s direction ( Lungo v. BC, 2011 BCHRT 341); waited until the eve of 
hearing to bring an application to dismiss ( Chaudhary v. Smoother Movers, 2009 BCHRT 
176); and made serious, inflammatory, derogato ry and unsubstantiated statements about 
Q during and after the hearing ( MacGarvie v. Friedmann, 2009 BCHRT 176 (remitted 
back to the Tribunal on judicial review, though not on that issue).  
[182]  Mr. Walker also represented to the Tribunal that he required a witness to attend in 
person, at substantial inconvenien ce to that witness, in order to cross-examine the witness 
on information he considered important to the Respondents’ defence. He then failed to appear, without explanation, to  conduct that cross-examinat ion. Similarly, he served an 
Order to Attend on a police officer, who atte nded the first day of hearing when her 
evidence was not required, and then failed to ad vise that witness that her evidence would 
not be required since Mr. Walker had decided not to present any evidence. 
[183]  I also find that Mr. Walker unnecessa rily prolonged the h earing by bringing 
applications to call numerous witnesse s, which required a response from Q and 
preparation for cross-examination by her legal counsel, and then failing, without explanation, to call these witnesses. Th is made his applica tions superfluous. I 
acknowledge, however, that he then shortene d the hearing by not calling any evidence. 
[184]  As well, I consider Mr. Walker’s threat of legal action against Q and the witness 
to constitute improper conduct. I also consider that it could constitute  a breach of s. 43 of 
the Code  which precludes retaliatory action against a person who participates in Tribunal 
proceedings. There is, however, no such applic ation on this issue before me and I make 
no finding or further comment on it. 
[185]  In my view, in light of th e conduct described above, Mr. Walker has demonstrated 
repeated disrespect for the Tribunal and its  processes, which has had a significant and 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
36 negative impact on the integrity of the Tribunal’s processes. In reaching this conclusion, I 
have not found Mr. Walker’s lack of focus dur ing his cross-examination of Q, as argued 
by Q, to constitute improper conduct. It is often the case that self-represented parties, who may be unfamiliar with the art of cross-exam ination, require reasonable latitude in the 
cross-examination process to ensure they have had a fair opportunity to  present their case.  
[186]  
Having concluded that Mr. Walker engaged in improper conduct, I must now 
determine the quantum of any costs award.  
[187]  The primary purpose of a costs award under s. 37(4) is punitive, and not 
compensatory: Fougere v. Rallis and Kalamata Greek Taverns (No. 2), 2003 BCHRT 43, 
para. 14. Such an award is intended to have a deterrent effect and to sanction conduct that has 
a significant and detrimental impact on the integrity of the Tribunal’s processes:  McLean v. 
B.C. (Min. of Public Safety and Sol. Gen.) (No. 3) , 2006 BCHRT 103, para. 8.  
[188]  In Kelly v. ICBC, 2007 BCHRT 382, the Tribunal se t out a non-exhaustive list of 
factors to be considered when assess ing the quantum of a costs award:  
Unlike other monetary awards by the Tribunal, the prim ary purpose of an 
award of costs is punitive, not compensatory. In addition, such an award is 
meant to act as a deterrent to prevent future participants from committing similar acts. In Bains v. Metro College Inc. and others (No. 2), 2004 
BCHRT 7, the Tribunal stated that an award of costs “should be sufficient 
to signal the Tribunal’s condemnation of the complainant’s conduct and to 
serve the punitive purpose of such an award.” (at para. 18)  
Flowing from this [ Bains at para 18], the primary factor taken into account 
by the Tribunal in determining the quantum of a cost award has been the nature and severity of the behaviou r which is being sanctioned, and the 
impact of that behaviour on the integr ity of the Tribunal’ s processes. In 
addition, and in appropriate circumst ances, the Tribunal has taken into 
account other factors, in cluding the following:  
• The ability of the party agains t whom costs are awarded to pay 
any award: Mahal v. Hartley, 2004 BCHRT 63;  
• The relative culpability of the pa rty with respect to the behaviour 
in question: Neuls v. Ann Davis Transition Society and Jacob (No. 
2), 2007 BCHRT 5;  
• Any factors, such as a disabili ty, which may have contributed to 
the behaviour in question: Stopps, Bakhtiyari ; and  
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
37 • Any other consequences to the part y which have arisen as a result 
of the sanctioned behaviour: Bakhtiyari; Glumac v. Fusco and 
others (No. 4), 2006 BCHRT 578 (para. 91).  
[189]  I have considered these factors in assessing  what, if any, awar d of costs to make 
in this case. 
[190]  Mr. Walker provided no information about his ability to pay an  award of costs. 
The improper conduct was all within his c ontrol and direction. He had possession and 
control of documents that he asserted we re arguably relevant to the complaint and 
response to the complaint, but refused to disc lose those documents pr ior to the hearing of 
the complaint and then only if Ms. Walker paid a photocopying charge of $.35 per page. I 
have considered, however, that one conseque nce of this improper conduct was that he 
was precluded from relying on the documentation at hearing. 
[191]  I have also considered that  the timing of the various applications filed by the 
Respondents, and the decision not to attend the balance of hearing to pursue his 
successful applications, were all matters wi thin Mr. Walker’s di rection and control. 
[192]  Mr. Walker provided no information to sugg est that he has any disability or that 
there is any other relevant factor that  contributed to the improper conduct. 
[193]  Finally, I have considered the impact on Q and her counsel in having to prepare a 
response to the various applications that we re then not pursued by Mr. Walker, including 
preparing for cross-examination of witnesses that Mr. Walker then failed to call after 
seeking an order to do so the day prior. 
[194]  In all these circumstances, I am persuaded that a significant award of costs is 
warranted. The range of awards in th e cases provided by Q is from $3,500.00 to 
$7,500.00. In my view, given the cumulative improper conduct of Mr. Walker, the 
circumstances warrant an award at  the higher end of this range. 
[195]  Pursuant to s. 37(4) of Code, I order Mr. Walker to pay to Q the sum of $6,500.00 
as costs for improper conduct in the course of the complaint. 
Interest 
[196]  I order the Respondents to pay to Q post- judgment interest on the applicable 
awards for injury to dignit y, feelings and self-respect and Mr. Walker to pay post2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)
38 judgment interest on the costs award until the re spective awards are paid in full, based on 
the rates set out in the Court Order Interest Act . R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 79, as amended (the 
“Act”). 
Summary  
[197]  The s. 13 complaint of discrimination in  employment based on sex is justified. 
[198]  The s. 43 complaint of retaliation is justified. 
[199]  Log and Mr. Walker are ordered to c ease and desist the same or similar 
contraventions. 
[200]  Log and Mr. Walker are ordered to pay to  Q, jointly and severally, the amount of 
$7,500 for damages for injury to dignity, feelings  and self-respect in respect of the s. 13 
complaint of discrimination. 
[201]  Mr. Walker is ordered to pay to Q the amount of $8,000 for damages for injury to 
dignity, feelings and self-res pect in respect of the s. 43 complaint of retaliation. 
[202]  Mr. Walker is ordered to pay to Q the amount of $6,500 as costs for improper 
conduct during the course of the complaint. 
[203]  Log and Mr. Walker are ordered to pay post-judgment interest on these amounts 
in accordance with the Court Order Interest Act.  
 
 
 
 
 Enid Marion, Tribunal Member
 
2012 BCHRT 135 (CanLII)