[1] Tammy Ratzlaff filed a complaint alleging that she was sexually harassed in her 
employment with Marpaul Construction Limi ted (“Marpaul”), by its owner, Albert 
Rondeau (collectively “the re spondents”).  Ms. Ratzlaff’s co mplaint was filed under s. 13 
of the Human Rights Code,  which prohibits discrimination in employment on the basis of 
sex. 
[2] Earlier in the Tribunal’s process, the respondents were represented by counsel 
who filed a response to the complaint on their be half.  In it, Mr. Rondeau admitted that he 
was the owner of Marpaul but denied  the sexual harassment allegations.  
[3] The hearing was originally scheduled to commence on September 15, 2009.  
Shortly prior to the hearing, respondents’  counsel unsuccessfully applied for an 
adjournment.  On September 15, at the comm encement of the heari ng, the parties entered 
into settlement discussions and advised the Tr ibunal that they had re solved the issues in 
the complaint and that the hearing should be  adjourned to allow for completion of the 
settlement. [4] On October 16, 2009, Ms. Ratzlaff’s counsel  advised the Tribunal that the 
settlement had not been completed and, as she was entitled to do, asked the Tribunal to 
reschedule the hearing.  The hearing was rescheduled for January 11, 12, 14 and 15, 2010 
and the respondents were provide d with notice of th e hearing by delivery of the Notice of 
Hearing to Mr. Rondeau, who wa s by that point no longer represented by counsel, by fax.   
[5] On January 11, 2010, the first day of the hearing, Ms. Ratzlaff and her counsel 
appeared at the Tribunal’s offices for the hearing.  Mr. Rondeau did not appear and no 
one appeared on behalf of Marpaul. Thei r non-appearance was not unexpected, as on 
December 15, 2009, Mr. Rondeau had written to the Tribunal advising that he would not 
attend “your meetings in January 2010 as I have  previously given my statement to record 
my version of this incident at your office. ”  Nevertheless, as is  the Tribunal’s usual 
practice, I stood the hearing down until 10:00 a. m. to provide the respondents with an 
opportunity to appear. They did not. 
1 
2010 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
[6] I was satisfied that the respondents had no tice of the complaint and of the hearing 
date, as evidenced by Mr. Rondeau’s December 15, 2009 refere nce to the January hearing 
dates in his letter to the Tribunal. 
[7] Ms. Ratzlaff and her husband, Randal MacKenzie, testified about the 
circumstances giving rise to the complaint.  Because of the respondent s’ failure to appear, 
their evidence was uncontroverted.  In any event, I found Ms. Ratzlaff to be a credible 
witness.  She testified in a careful manner, frankly admitting when she did not recall the 
date or location of an event.  Further, on two occasions, Ms. Ratzlaff tape recorded her interactions with Mr. Rondeau.  The recording, which was filed with me in the form of a 
disc, and accompanied by an unofficial transcript, supported her evid ence with re spect to 
the events on those two occasions.  Her resignation on the day following the culminating incident, which will be discussed below, was also consistent with her evidence about the harassment. 
II THE FACTS 
[8] Marpaul hired Ms. Ratzlaff as a heavy equi pment operator to work for it on road 
construction contracts or si te preparation for residential development.  She had 
undertaken a three-year training course to ope rate heavy equipment, and Marpaul was her 
first employer following the completion of her training.  She was qualified to operate 
articulated rock trucks, packers and graders. 
[9] Ms. Ratzlaff testified that she was excite d at the opportunity to work for Marpaul 
because she would be able to put her traini ng to use.  She saw in Mr. Rondeau, who was 
older than her father, a mentor who would gi ve her on-the-job expe rience in the various 
pieces of heavy equipment used in road bui lding and site preparation for residential 
development.  Mr. Rondeau told her that he  would teach her the various aspects of the 
job.  She knew that she was going to be working in a non-traditional working 
environment for women, but that did not co ncern her because she had previously been 
employed in construction traffic control, also  a male-dominated work environment.  She 
felt that the opportunity to earn more money an d to be part of building something lasting 
was very exciting. 
2 
2010 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
[10] Ms. Ratzlaff commenced her employment on September 11, 2007.  She was paid 
$22.00 an hour and was expected to be available to work ten hour days, five or six days a 
week.  She initially worked in and around he r home in Chilliwack on various projects. 
She testified that Marpaul appeared  to have many jobs underway.  
[11] Ms. Ratzlaff was the only woman on Marpaul’s heavy equipment crew.  Other 
women worked in the office but  not on the job sites.   
[12] Ms. Ratzlaff first became concerned about the attention Mr. Rondeau was paying 
to her because of sexual comments that he made to her.  He first did so on October 13, 
2007.  They were travelling in his pick-up truck to a crew meeting at a local restaurant to 
discuss a contract they were to do in Kamloops.  She recalled the da te because a family 
member passed away that day.  While in the truck, Mr. Rondeau said that she was beautiful and that he was lonely.  He told her how she made him feel and that he knew 
what she could do for him.  He also grabbed her hand.  She was uncomfortable but did not want to make an issue about it so she ju st shrugged it off.  She also testified that, 
having worked in construction before, she knew  that inappropriate things were sometimes 
said and she had learned to ignore them. 
[13] After the meeting in the restaurant, Mr . Rondeau asked Ms. Ratzlaff whether she 
would use her prior expertise a nd return to the Marpaul office to advise him with respect 
to a traffic control plan for the Kamloops job site.  While in the office, he grabbed her 
buttocks and tried to hug her. She testified that  Mr. Rondeau said that  “he’d love to screw 
her until she could not walk” and that he  enjoyed sex with younger women.  Although 
she could not recall specifically whether th ese comments were made in the Marpaul 
office or in the pick-up truck, her best recollection was that they were in the office.  Mr. 
Rondeau commented about enjoying sex with younger women on more than one 
occasion.   
[14] Ms. Ratzlaff testified that she was shoc ked by Mr. Rondeau’s behaviour and did 
not know what to do, but pushed Mr. Rondeau’s  hands away and said that she wasn’t 
interested, and that her husband and son we re waiting in her truck to pick her up. 
[15] Ms. Ratzlaff was concerned about going to Kamloops with Mr. Rondeau as she 
knew that she and the crew would be away from home and st aying in a motel together.  
3 
2010 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
She considered whether she should quit her job but, because it was close to Christmas, 
and she needed the income, she had no choice  but to continue her employment.  She 
testified that she believed that , if she just stayed away fr om Mr. Rondeau, and did not put 
herself in a situation where she was alone  with him, she could get through it.   
[16] Ms. Ratzlaff testified that she had become friendly with two other members of the 
crew and mentioned her concerns  to them.  They offered to  drive her to and from the 
motel to the job site, escort her to and from he r room, and eat their meals with her, so that 
she could avoid being alone w ith Mr. Rondeau.  They also agreed that they would not 
gather in her room but in one of theirs.  Ms. Ratzlaff testified that she was careful to lock 
her room and not to open the door without us ing the “peep hole” to see who was there. 
[17] When the crew first went to Kamloops, Mr. Rondeau arranged a meeting for 6:30 
p.m., in his room, to discuss the job plan fo r the following week.  She was the first crew 
member to arrive at the meeting.  Mr. Rondeau told her that his wife was ill and that they no longer had sex because she slept 23 of 24 hours a day.  He said that he found Ms. 
Ratzlaff very attractive and that he would like to  have sex with her.  He told her that he 
would not force her to have se x until she wanted to and that  he was a man of his word 
and it would not affect her job. 
[18] Ms. Ratzlaff testified that she telephone d her husband and told him about the 
incidents involving Mr. Rondeau and that she was concerned about being away from her 
support network in Chilliwack.  She said that she didn’t want to be overly sensitive about 
what was being said to her and wondered wh ether her discomfort was reasonable.  Her 
husband advised her to tape record her convers ations with Mr. Rondeau so that he could 
determine whether she had a need to be concerne d and sent a tape recorder to her for that 
purpose. 
[19] Ms. Ratzlaff taped two conversations with Mr. Rondeau.  The first occurred after 
she finished her work before the co-workers  with whom she usually travelled finished 
theirs.  Mr. Rondeau drove her back to the motel rather than have her wait for her coworkers.  The second occurred after she wo rked later than her co-workers and Mr. 
Rondeau agreed to drive her to a dealership in Kamloops which was servicing her truck.  
On both occasions, the recordings indicate that Mr. Rondeau interspersed casual 
4 
2010 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
conversation with sexual innuendo.  He talked about  wanting to make love to her, that he 
was willing to bide his time until she was willing, and said that if he was her husband he 
would have made sure that she had more than  one child.  On the recordings, Mr. Rondeau 
acknowledged that he was not making any h eadway with his advances to Ms. Ratzalff 
and that he knew she was afraid of him.  She testified that she felt very uncomfortable in 
these conversations but tried to put a br ave face on and laugh the comments off.  
[20] On Sunday, November 25, 2007, after a weeken d at home, the crew was to return 
to Kamloops for the next week’s work.  Ms. Ratzlaff arrived in  the early evening, 
unpacked and went to join her co-workers for dinner in one of thei r rooms.  Mr. Rondeau 
arrived and Ms. Ratzlaff left, saying that she had to make some phone calls.  A few minutes later, there was a knock on her door, and without checking who was there, Ms. 
Ratzlaff opened it.  Mr. Rondeau  forced his way into the room.  He grabbed her throat 
and kissed her aggressively, fo rcing his tongue into her mout h.  She said that he then 
grabbed her breasts and tried to  get his hands into her vagina .  She kneed him in the thigh 
but he repeated his conduct.  He swore a bout the blinds being broken and asked her how 
she expected him to make love to her without the blinds being closed. 
[21] Ms. Ratzlaff testified that the whole incide nt was a blur and th at she did not recall 
how she got him out of her r oom.  She was distraught and di d not know what to do but 
she went and told her co-worke rs what had happened and th at she was going to go home.  
They persuaded her to calm down and to stay  until the following morning as it had started 
snowing and it was not safe to travel.  She called her husband and her parents who told 
her to come home.  Mr. MacKenzie testified th at Ms. Ratzlaff was very upset, but despite 
his urging, she felt it would be unsafe for he r to drive home in the snow.  Ms. Ratzlaff 
testified that she could not decide what to do but she felt that she had to keep her job as her family needed the money.  She stayed the night in the motel and went to the job site the next morning with her co-workers where th ey were told that the job was being shut 
down temporarily due to th e winter conditions.   
[22] Her co-workers escorted her back to her room, where she started to pack.  Ms. 
Ratzlaff testified that she was visited in her room by Mr. Rondeau’s brother, who had 
been told about the incident.  He said th at he would “smack Mr. Rondeau around and 
5 
2010 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
force him to apologise”, but Ms. Ratzlaff asked him not to as she did not want to face Mr. 
Rondeau.  She packed her belongings and went to check out of the motel.  When she gave 
the hotel manager her keys, the manager indicated that he had been told that she was not 
to leave.  Ms. Ratzlaff said she could not be forced to stay and le ft.  On her way home, 
she called the site manager, and told him that she was quitting.  He indicated that he understood and said that if she ever n eeded a reference she could call him. 
III ANALYSIS 
[23]  It has long been established in human rights cases that sexual harassment is a 
form of sexual discrimination.  In Janzen v. Platy Enterprises Ltd. , [1989] 1 S.C.R. 1252 
the court defined sexual harassment as follows: 
… unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature that detrimentally affects the 
work environment or leads to advers e job-related consequences for the 
victims of harassment.  It is…an abus e of power.  When sexual harassment 
occurs in the workplace, it is an abuse of both economic and sexual power.  
Sexual harassment is a demeaning practice, one that constitutes a profound affront to the dignity of the employees  forced to endure it….  (para. 56) 
[24] The Court quoted with a pproval the following descrip tions of sexual harassment: 
…Sexual harassment is a ny sexually-oriented pract ice that endangers an 
individual’s continued employment , negatively affects his/her work 
performance, or undermines his/her sense of personal dignity… 
…Harassment behaviour may manifest itself blatantly in forms such as 
leering, grabbing, and even sexual assault.  More subtle forms of sexual 
harassment may include innuendos, and propositions for dates or sexual favours….  (para. 49) 
[25] The Supreme Court of Canada went on to say: 
…Sexual harassment is not limited to demands for sexual favours made 
under threats of adverse job conseque nces should the employee fail to 
comply with the demands.  Victims of harassment need not demonstrate that they were not hired, were denied a promotion or were dismissed from their employment as a result of their refusal to participate in sexual activity.  This form of harassment, in which the victim suffers concrete economic loss for failing to submit to  sexual demands, is simply one 
manifestation of sexual harassment, albe it a particularly blatant and ugly 
one.  Sexual harassment also encomp asses situations in which sexual 
demands are foisted upon unwilling employees or in which employees 
6 
2010 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
must endure sexual groping, propositions, and inappropriate comments, 
but where no tangible economic rewards are attached to involvement in the 
behaviour. (para. 52)   
[26] On the facts set out above, and applying these definitions of sexual harassment, I 
conclude that Ms. Ratzlaff experienced unwel come conduct of a sexual nature which 
detrimentally affected her work environm ent and led to her resignation from her 
employment.  The conduct in question was c ontinual and both verbal and physical.  I find 
that Ms. Ratzlaff’s complaint under s. 13 of the Code is justified and that Mr. Rondeau 
sexually harassed her during her employment with Marpaul.  As both Ms. Ratzlaff’s  and 
Mr. Rondeau’s employer, Marpaul shares joint and several liability for the discrimination 
Ms. Ratzlaff suffered. 
IV REMEDY 
[27] The Code’s remedial provisions ar e set out in s. 37(2).  The purpose of a human 
rights remedy is not to punish the discriminato r but to compensate th e victim and, to the 
extent possible, put them in the position they would have b een in had the discrimination 
not occurred.  
[28] In this case, Ms. Ratzlaff seeks an award for wage loss in the amount of $22,000 
and for the injury to her dignity, feelings  and self-respect in the amount of $25,000.   
[29] The relevant portions of  s. 37(2) provide:  
37 (2) If the member or panel determines  that the complaint is justified, the 
member or panel 
(a) must order the person that contravened this Code to cease the 
contravention and to refrain from  committing the same or a similar 
contravention, 
(b) may make a declaratory order that the conduct complained of, or 
similar conduct, is discrimina tion contrary to this Code, 
... 
(d) if the person discriminated against is a party to the complaint, or is an identifiable member of a group or class on behalf of which a complaint is filed, may order the pers on that contravened this Code to 
do one or more of the following: 
7 
2010 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
... 
(ii) compensate the person discriminated against for all, or a part 
the member or panel determines, of any wages or salary lost, or expenses incurred, by the contravention; 
(iii) pay to the person discriminated against an amount that the 
member or panel considers approp riate to compensate that person 
for injury to dignity, feelings and self respect or to any of them. 
... 
Mandatory Order  
[30] Pursuant to s. 37(2)(a), as is required, I order that Albert Rondeau and Marpaul 
Construction Limited refrain from committing th e same or a similar contravention of the 
Code . 
Injury to Dignity, Feelings and Self-respect [31] Ms. Ratzlaff testified that, following her resignation, she was devastated, scared, 
and traumatized.  Mr. MacKenzie, who was not in the hearing room when Ms. Ratzlaff 
testified, also described her as traumatized by th e events in Kamloops.  She wondered 
how she could have handled it differently to k eep the job that was so important to her. 
She had trained for three years to obtain the qualifications necessary for her to work as a heavy equipment operator and felt that she ha d an opportunity to ea rn more money than 
she had previously and to be a part of bu ilding something lasting.  She was not naive 
about the nature of the work environment a nd the under-representation of women in it but 
she felt that she was strong enough to face th at challenge.  She testified that her 
confidence in herself, and in her ability to pursue her chosen field, was shattered and that 
she could not go back to working in it.   
[32] Both Ms. Ratzlaff and her husband testif ied about the impact the harassment had 
on them, their home life and their twelve y ear old son, who could see how upset his 
mother was.  He knew that something bad had happened to his mother, because she was 
distraught, but he did not understand what it was.   Mr. MacKenzie testif ied that he did not 
know how to comfort Ms. Ratzlaff and that sh e was so emotional th at he tiptoed around 
her for some time.   
8 
2010 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
[33] Ms. Ratzlaff sought assistance from he r family doctor and from Victim’s 
Services.  Through a colleague, she was put in touch with Vancouver Rape Relief which 
provided her with a counsellor.  She testifie d that she tried real ly hard not to cry 
constantly but that she was not able to do anything until February.  She said, “it wrecked 
her Christmas” and Mr. Rondeau’s conduct “for ced her whole family to pay.”  She also 
testified that she was forced to r eassess her next career choice.   
[34] Ms. Ratzlaff testified that she was able to return to work in traffic control 
beginning in March 2008 and that she worked in that field intermittently until October 2008, when she decided to retrai n as a Sheriff’s Officer.   
[35] When determining the appropriate compensation for injury to dignity in sexual 
harassment cases, the Tribunal has adopted th e seven non-exhaustive considerations set 
out in Torres v. Royalty Kitchenware Ltd.  (1982), 3 C.H.R.R. D/858 (Ont. Bd. Inq.). 
They are: 
1. the nature of the harassment, that is, was it simply verbal or was it 
physical as well; 
2. the degree of aggressiveness and p hysical contact in the harassment; 
3. the ongoing nature, that is, the time period of the harassment; 
4. its frequency; 5. the age of the victim; 6. the vulnerability of the victim; and 
7. the psychological impact of the harassment upon the victim. 
[36] In this case, as I have indicated, the harassment was both physical and verbal.  
The physical conduct started with holding he r hand and escalated during the employment 
period to the final assault.  On more than  two occasions, Mr. Rondeau physically touched 
Ms. Ratzlaff against her will.  The final inci dent, which occurred in Ms. Ratzlaff’s hotel 
room, was most egregious and aggressive.   
[37] While the employment rela tionship was not a lengthy one, the harassment began 
almost as soon as the employment and pe rmeated virtually all of Ms. Ratzlaff’s 
9 
2010 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
interactions with Mr. Rondeau.  Ms. Ratzla ff could not have a conversation with Mr. 
Rondeau without there being some  sexual suggestion in it.   
[38] Ms. Ratzlaff testified that she was required to put safeguards in place with her coworkers to give her a measur e of security.  She also ch anged her behaviour to avoid 
contact with him and became more personally aw are of her security.  It was clear in her 
evidence that she blamed herself for ope ning the door to her motel room without 
checking who was knocking first.  The hara ssment only ended because Ms. Ratzlaff 
resigned.   
[39] While Ms. Ratzlaff is more mature than some victims of harassment, there was a 
significant age difference between her and Mr . Rondeau, whom she testified was older 
than her father.  She testified that she hoped that Mr. Rondeau would teach and mentor 
her to be a success in a well-paying and non-traditional working environment for a woman.   
[40] Ms. Ratzlaff was extremely vulnerable because  her work required her to be away 
from home and from her support networks fo r extended periods of time.  She was the 
only woman on the crew and staying in a motel that was paid for by her employer.  As a 
result, her ability to avoid Mr. Rondeau was limited.  She was also vulnerable because 
this was her first job as a heavy equipment ope rator and she wanted it  to be a success.  
She was proud of having succeeded in the tr aining and believed that she was a strong 
woman who was well-suited to the work environment.  The abrupt end to her 
employment caused her to doubt her abilities.   [41] Ms. Ratzlaff was also vulnerable because she wanted to work and her family 
needed the income.  Mr. Rondeau was in a position of authority over her and she needed 
his approval to keep her job and to obtain the on-the-job training and references she 
required.  She was not in a position where sh e could walk away lightly from the job 
because it allowed her to apply her training a nd was part of her overall plan for success in 
her chosen field.  As a result of what occurred, Ms. Ratzlaff was unable to pursue the career she had spent three years training for.   
10 
2010 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
[42] Because of the Torres principles, and the particular circumstances of each case, 
there is a wide range in the Tribunal’s awards for injury to dignity, feelings and selfrespect in sexual harassment cases.   
[43] Recently, in Harrison v. Nixon Safety Consulting and others (No. 3) , 2008 
BCHRT 462, the Tribunal awarded $15,000.  In  other discrimination cases, the 
Tribunal’s awards under this section have ranged up to $35,000: Senyk v. WFG Agency 
Network (No. 2) , 2008 BCHRT 376. This case does not pr esent some of the factors that 
would result in an award at that level.  Howe ver, I am satisfied that the award in this case 
should be higher than in Harrison because of the significant physical nature of the 
harassment Ms. Ratzlaff experienced and the fact  that it occurred when she was isolated 
and vulnerable.  I am satisfied that, in all the circumstances of this case, an award of 
$25,000 for injury to dignity, feelings a nd self-respect is appropriate.   
Loss of Wages 
[44] Ms. Ratzlaff was unemployed for a pe riod of four months following her 
resignation.  She then obtained work in her previous line of  work of traffic control, 
earning a wage significantly less than she exp ected to earn with Marpaul. She is seeking 
her full wage loss for the four-month period,  and a wage differential for the following 
seven months until she decided to seek retraining. 
[45] I accept Ms. Ratzlaff’s and Mr. MacKenzi e’s evidence that for four months 
following her resignation, Ms. Ratzlaff was unable to work as a result of the emotional 
impact of the harassment.   
[46] Section 37(2)(d)(ii) permits me to award compensation to Ms. Ratzlaff for all or 
part of the wages she lost as a result of the discrimination that I ha ve found.  Orders under 
this section are discretionary  and often based on the best evidence available to the 
Tribunal of the actual wage loss. [47] Based on Ms. Ratzlaff’s evidence about her e xpected ten hours of work for either 
five or six days a week and an hourly rate of $22.00, Ms. Ratzla ff could have earned 
between $1,100 and $1,320 per week or between approximately $4,400 and $5,000 per 
11 
2010 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
month.  However, it was also clear from her evidence that there were days on which she 
did not work for ten hours because the equi pment she was operating was not needed.   
[48] Ms. Ratzlaff’s record of employment from Marpaul, which she accepts is 
accurate, discloses her actual income during the months that she worked for it.  It 
indicates the following bi-weekly amounts: $663.52, $1075.36, $1,736.80, $322.40, 
$696.80, and $1,809.60.  The pay records indicate that Ms. Ratzlaff’s wages were steadily increasing and that in the last f our weeks in which she worked she earned 
approximately $2,500.  Ms. Ratzlaff testified th at she had no reason to believe that she 
would not continue to earn that salary as Marpaul had continuing contracts in and around the Fraser Valley.  As the res pondents did not appear, her ev idence in that regard was 
uncontroverted.  As a result, I c onclude that it is reasonable  to award her wage loss for 
the first four months following her resignation in the amount of $10,000.   
[49] In the next seven months, Ms. Ratz laff earned $1,915.42 from one employer and 
$3,010.28 from another employer.  I am satisfied  that she is entitled to the wage 
differential between her earnings and those sh e could have expected from Marpaul for 
that seven month period because I have conc luded that Ms. Ratzlaff’s decision not to 
pursue heavy equipment operato r opportunities was reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Her evidence of the impact of the harassm ent on her confidence as  a strong and capable 
woman was particularly persuasive  in that regard.  It is not  surprising that she regrouped 
and chose to return to the work that she ha d done prior to her training and her experience 
with Marpaul and Mr. Rondeau.   
[50] Based on an expected salary of $2,500 per month from Marpaul, and deducting 
the money otherwise earned, Ms. Ratzlaff’s wage loss differential in the next seven 
months is slightly more than $12,000 and I ha ve concluded that it is  reasonable to award 
her wage loss in the amount of $12,000.  
Interest 
[51] Pre-judgment interest is or dered in accordance with the Court Order Interest Act , 
R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 79, as amended, for wage loss, from November 26, 2007. Post12 
2010 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)
13 judgment interest is ordered on compensation for wage loss and for injury to dignity, 
feelings and self-respect.   
V CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
[52] For the reasons given, I have found Ms. Ra tzlaff’s complaint of discrimination to 
be justified and have ordered the following remedies: 
(i) Under s. 37(2)(a), the respondents are to refrain from committing 
the same or a similar contravention of the Code .  
(ii) Under s. 37(2)(d)(iii), the responde nts are to pay the complainant 
damages for injury to dignity, f eelings and self-respect in the 
amount of $25,000; 
(iii)Under s. 37(2)(d)(ii), the res pondents are to pay the complainant 
her loss of wages in the amount of $22,000; and 
(iv)  The respondents are to pay pre-ju dgment interest pursuant to the 
Court Order Interest Act on the award for lost wages and postjudgment interest on all amounts ordered from the date of this decision until the date of payment. 
  
 Heather M. MacNaughton, Tribunal Chair
 
2010 BCHRT 13 (CanLII)