AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
[1] Shannon Weaver, (now Root), filed a comp laint against Ben Reed and Ray Ray’s 
Beach Club (“Ray Ray’s), and Station Nei ghbourhood Pub and Eatery (collectively the 
“Respondents”), alleging discrimination in he r employment on the basis of sex (sexual 
harassment), contrary to s. 13 of the Human Rights Code . 
[2] The complaint was filed on August 19, 2011, with amendments added on March 
21, 2012. On April 30, 2012, the Respondents were served with the co mplaint and told 
they had until June 4, 2012 to file a res ponse. On June 4, 2012, Mr. Reed advised the 
Tribunal he had no interest in pa rticipating in a settlement mee ting. He said he would file 
a response to the complaint. He was granted an extension of time to do so. He filed no response with the Tribunal. 
[3] On October 25, 2012, the Tribunal issued No tice that a hearing would be held 
February 6 and 7, 2013. The Notice was sent to  both Mr. Reed’s personal and business 
addresses. The letter to the business address was returned. The letter to Mr. Reed was not 
returned. The Tribunal’s case manager made nu merous, unsuccessful attempts to contact 
Mr. Reed by telephone using the number on file but it was no longer in service. 
[4] A further Notice providing th e location of the hearing was couriered on January 
23, 2013. Mr. Reed was directed to contact the Tribunal by January 31, 2013, to advise of his intention to participate. The courie r materials were returned, undelivered, on 
February 4, 2013. Mr. Reed had relocat ed without notifying the Tribunal. 
[5] On February 4, 2013, the matter was resche duled to be heard May 2 and 3, 2013. 
The Notice of Hearing and pack age of documents were succe ssfully served on Mr. Reed 
and the Respondents, by process server, on April 15, 2013, at an address in Calgary, 
Alberta. (Ex. 6). 
[6] On April 22, 2013, a letter confirming th e location and starting time of the 
hearing was sent to Mr. Reed at his Calgar y address. On April 23, 2013, Mr. Reed told 
the Tribunal’s case manager that his lawyer would be in touch and his “statement” would 
be delivered the following day. Nothing was received. 
2013 BCHRT 143 (CanLII)
2 
 [7] On May 1, 2013, the Tribunal received a faxed letter from a Mr. Zinner, 
indicating that he had, on th at date been “approached” by Mr . Reed with respect to the 
matter and the hearing scheduled for the follo wing day. The letter advised that Mr. Reed 
had sent a response to the complaint “some time ago”; he would re-fax his submission 
that evening; he cannot afford the travel to Cranbrook; he cannot afford to retain a 
lawyer; and the Notice of Hearing came to hi s attention 10 days ago, which does not 
accord with the affidavit of the process server. (Ex. 6) 
[8] The letter from Mr. Zinner contained no app lication in the form prescribed by the 
Tribunal’s Rules of Practice and Procedure (“Rules ”). It simply requested an 
adjournment, “to put forward a defence and to be represented by Counsel”. The letter 
also said that Mr. Reed anticipat ed retaining “us” in August.  
[9] As the presiding member, I was provided with the aforementioned letter at 4:25 
p.m. on May 1, 2013, while I was away from th e Tribunal’s offices and preparing to 
travel to Cranbrook for the hearing. I advise d the writer by e-mail that the complaint had 
been filed on August 19, 2011, about twenty-t wo months earlier; that no response had 
been filed; that Mr. Reed had not complie d with any of the Tribunal’s orders or 
directions; and, that Mr. Reed had been pers onally served (over tw o weeks earlier). Mr. 
Zinner’s letter was clear that he had not b een retained by Mr. R eed to defend him. I 
advised that the hearing would proceed as sc heduled. I indicated I would be inviting an 
application for costs against Mr. Reed on th e basis of his misconduct in the context of 
this proceeding. 
[10] On May 2, 2013, I convened the hearing of this complaint in Cranbrook, British 
Columbia. At 9:40 a.m. (B.C. time), I recei ved an e-mail from Mr. Reed, going to the 
merits of the complaint and denying owners hip of the respondent businesses. He also 
threatened civil action against me personally. 
[11] The hearing proceeded as scheduled. The Respondents did not participate. 
[12] Ms. Root testified on her own behalf. Sh e was without legal representation. She 
was an excellent and reliable witness. She was entirely candid when her memory of dates 
2013 BCHRT 143 (CanLII)
3 
 or events was less than firm. She withdrew  the portion of her complaint based on the 
protected ground of marital status. 
[13] Ms. Root also called two witnesses to  testify on her behalf. Both witnesses 
testified under oath. They specifically asked not  to be personally id entified by name in 
the context of this decision. In support of  their requests for a nonymity, both individuals 
said that they had witnessed Mr. Reed react violently, including involving weapons, such 
as a baseball bat, toward people, even form er friends, who angered him. They expressed 
fear for their personal safety. One witness sa id Mr. Reed had in the past threatened to 
harm that person’s person or property. Unde r the circumstances, these witnesses will 
simply be referred to as X and Y. 
THE EVIDENCE 
[14] Ms. Root says she attended Ray Ray’s, a bar and restaurant at Kinsmen Beach in 
Invermere, for a beer. In c onversation with Mr. Reed, who, referred to himself as coowner and manager, she said she would like to  work there. Mr. Reed said if she could 
memorize and repeat all the brands of beer being served, she could have the job. She already had a job at a golf course but consid ered waitressing at Ray Ray’s a fun job in a 
casual, relaxed atmosphere on the lake. She believes she started working there in November 2010. 
[15] Ms. Root testified that on Saturday, Ap ril 15, 2011, she started her shift at 5:00 
p.m. She was assigned to cover tables one and two. The bar was completely packed. A 
“cover band” for the group the Tragically Hi p, called the “Hip Replacements”, was 
playing. She says it was also one of the bartenders’ last night at Ray Ray’s. 
[16] Ms. Root says around 10:00 p.m., she was busy performing a variety of chores. 
She found herself standing at the “hostess station”, where menus , napkins, and rolled 
flatware, (knives, forks and spoons), were kept. She was slicing limes and lemons for 
drinks. 
[17] Ms. Root testified that, without warn ing, she was struck very hard on the 
buttocks. She heard Ben Reed scream “Whoo, I’v e been waiting for months to get this F2013 BCHRT 143 (CanLII)
4 
 ---d up”. Ms. Root says Mr. Reed was “dr unk and high”. She says Mr. Reed had been 
drinking shots behind the bar. 
[18] Ms. Root testified that the blow felt like it had been struck by  Mr. Reed using his 
entire arm. She felt a tingling down both of he r legs. She does not remember if she said 
anything immediately but she was completely s hocked and very upset. She told a chef in 
the kitchen what had happened. After a while she returned to the hostess station, checked 
on, and attended to her tables.  
[19] Witness X was at Ray Ray’s that night, si tting at the end of the bar. X saw Ms. 
Root at the hostess station with her back to  the bar, when Mr. Reed walked up behind 
her, raised his arm and hit her really hard  on the behind. X says everyone at the bar was 
completely shocked. X testified that Mr. Reed said “I wanted to do that for a long time”. 
X says Mr. Reed had been drinking, which he did regularly while working. X says Mr. 
Reed routinely referred to female server s in highly derogato ry, sexist terms. 
[20] Ms. Root says that half an  hour later she sustained a second, hard smack to her 
buttocks. It was painful and embarrassing, if pe rhaps slightly less surp rising than the first 
blow. She recalls that a lot of patrons who w itnessed the incident were laughing. She told 
Mr. Reed not to do this. She became ever more  upset and tearful and asked him, as the 
manager on duty, for permission to go home. She says Mr. Reed laughed as though it 
was a joke. He returned to th e bar, poured shots, removed hi s shirt and let patrons take 
pictures of him shir tless, drinking shots. 
[21] Ms. Root says that twenty minutes later,  while the bar was still crowded, she was 
struck a third time. By then, she says, it was between midnight and one a.m. She does 
not remember exactly where she was when the third strike occurred. She says Mr. Reed 
was again laughing. She felt violated. She walked away, upset and again talked to the chef in the kitchen. She says she tried to remain busy and became even more upset, 
having cut her finger while slic ing limes. She thought about he r fiancé’s reaction if she 
told him about what had happened. She says th at at the end of her shift, Mr. Reed asked 
her not to tell her fiancé. The two men knew each  other. She said she would certainly be 
telling him.  
2013 BCHRT 143 (CanLII)
5 
 [22] Ms. Root arrived home after two a.m. She says that th e next day, she told her 
fiancé what had happened. He was “not impressed”.  
[23] X testified to hearing about, but not witnessing the second and third of Mr. 
Reed’s blows to Ms. Root’s buttocks. [24] Ms. Root testified that afte r the events of April 15, 2011, she felt her shifts at Ray 
Ray’s were reduced. When she approached Mr. Reed about the possible relationship 
between his conduct on April 15, 2011, and her reduced shifts, he told her he needed 
some of her shifts to train newly hired serv ers. She invited him to  discuss the incidents 
but he said there was no rela tionship to her hours of work. 
[25] Ms. Root testified about another inci dent on June 25, 2011, involving a table of 
three women. Mr. Reed apparently went into  a tirade and poured a pint of beer on one 
woman’s head. After the group refused to pay th eir large bill, he instructed Ms. Root to 
get his money under threat of being fired. Apparently, the next day Mr. Reed claimed no 
memory of the incident. Although the anecdote has no probative relevance to her complaint, Ms. Root spoke about it as an example of Mr. Reed’s  volatile behaviour.  
[26] Ms. Root also recounted an incident on July 16, 2011, during which Mr. Reed 
embarrassed her in front of a number of patrons, about the number of  times she had been 
married, as an example of his demeaning conduct toward her.  
[27] Ms. Root testified her shif ts continued to be cut and she continued to ask why, 
because her wedding was approaching in November 2011, and she wanted the money. 
[28] Ms. Root testified that on a Tuesday in July, she took time from her other job, (at 
which she still works), to attend a mandatory  10:00 a.m. staff mee ting at Ray Ray’s. 
However at 9:30 a.m., she received a text message from Mr. Reed telling her not to 
attend. He said that he would call her later. Ms. Root says that after the staff meeting, 
Mr. Reed announced that she was no longer employed at Ray Ray’s. She made several 
attempts to speak to Mr. Reed but he did no t return her calls. Ms. Root introduced into 
evidence the following exchange between herself and Mr. Reed a week after the 
meeting: 
2013 BCHRT 143 (CanLII)
6 
 Text messages between Ben Reed  and Shannon Root regarding 
Shannon’s dismissal.  
Shannon : Tuesday July 26, 2011, 4:50 pm my text read “heard I’m 
fired, would have been nice if you had called me and told me.” 
Ben: Wednesday July 27, 2011, 12:04 a.m.  Ben texted back, “not fired 
just not learning...have repeated myself  so much and have tried to help 
you learn...I was getting to frustr ated and we had some negative 
feedback on service a few times the last couple weeks. I didn’t want to have worse time and you had I were  already running into bad nights 
together and I hate that cause I like  you and I am too busy to work on it 
with you...thought maybe later in the fa ll we could get back on track. I 
have too much on my plate right now to do that with you. We have to 
finish the summer first. I would have called but wanted to do it more in 
person...this conversation that is. No t anything is as it seems and I 
haven’t gossip. I have just said you ar en’t with us right  now. So sorry 
that’s how you feel. I’m sure we can work something out in the future 
but we don’t have to if your upset...Th ere are things also  to discuss to 
make things better between us and settle the dirt”. 
Ben:  The next text that I received from Ben was at 3:12 a.m. July 27
th, 
2011, “ok then...see you when I see you”. (Ex. 8) 
[29] Ms. Root testified that she filed an Employment Standards Branch complaint 
which was resolved on payment of one week’s  salary as severance, amounting to $96.98. 
[30] In Mr. Reed’s e-mail, addressed to me the morning of the hearing, he alleges Ms. 
Root’s employment standards “c laim” involved a release of all future claims in exchange 
for her severance payment. Mr. Reed appear s to be under the mistaken impression that, 
in addition to resolving an employment-based dispute, the Employment Standards Branch has the authority to determine an  allegation of disc rimination under the Human 
Rights Code . Employment Standards Branch and Code  complaints are of course entirely 
different in nature and substance. The Empl oyment Standards Branch has no authority to 
decide or resolve human rights complaints under the Code : Macarenko v. Arvai , 2005 
BCHRT 418; Chow v. B.C. Northern Lights and another , 2012 BCHRT 282. 
[31] Witness Y testified that Mr. Reed was ow ner, manager of Ray Ray’s, together 
with his wife. Y says that in his capacity, Mr . Reed hired and fired staff and signed their 
paycheques. Y described Mr. R eed as unpredictable, manipulat ive, aggressive, hard to 
2013 BCHRT 143 (CanLII)
7 
 work for and intimidating. He routinely refe rred to staff using extremely derogatory 
terms. Y said Ray Ray’s closed in June 2012. Y did not see Mr. Reed strike Ms. Root but 
had heard him refer to her “but t”, and trying to embarrass her. 
[32] Ms. Root expressed fear of retaliation from Mr. Reed. 
  ANALYSIS AND DECISION  
[33] Ms. Root’s complaint is filed under s. 13 of the Code  which provides: 
(1) A person must not 
(a) refuse to employ or refuse to continue to employ a person, or 
(b) discriminate against a person re garding employment or any term 
or condition of employment 
 because...of sex... 
[34] The onus is on Ms. Root to establish, on a balance of probabilities, that the 
Respondents, or any of them, discriminate d against her on the ba sis of sex (sexual 
harassment). 
[35] Sexual harassment is a form of sex discrimination: Janzen v. Platy Enterprises 
Ltd., [1989] 1 S.C.R. 1252, [1989] S.C. J. No. 41 (Q.L.), defined as: 
...unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature  that detrimentally affects the 
work environment or lead s to adverse job-relate d consequences for the 
victims of the harassment. It is … an abuse of power. When sexual 
harassment occurs in the workplace, it is an abuse of both economic and 
sexual power. Sexual harassment is a demeaning practice, one that 
constitutes a profound affront to the di gnity of the employees forced to 
endure it...(para. 56) 
[36] In Janzen  the Court also said: 
...Sexual harassment is any sexually-ori ented practice that endangers an 
individual’s continued employment , negatively affects his/her work 
performance, or undermines his/ her sense of personal dignity... 
 Harassment behaviour may manifest its elf blatantly in forms such as 
leering, grabbing, and even sexual assa ult. More subtle  forms of sexual 
2013 BCHRT 143 (CanLII)
8 
 harassment may include innuendos, and propositions for dates or sexual 
favours...(para. 49) 
[37] As the Respondents failed to respond to Ms. Root’s complaint, and did not appear 
at the hearing, there exists no evidenti ary dispute or issue of credibility. 
[38] Applying the foregoing definitions, I find that Ms. Root was, on April 15, 2011, 
subjected to sexual harassment in her employment at Ray Ray’s, by Mr. Reed, her employer. The harassment was in the form of  three painful, unwelcome, intimate blows, 
inflicted by Mr. Reed. They were sexual in na ture, and he knew, or ought to have known, 
they were unwelcome. They negatively a ffected Ms. Root’s work environment, 
eventually led to reduced work hours and ulti mately her dismissal, for no stated reason. 
[39] The complaint is justifie d against all Respondents. 
REMEDY 
[40] Having found the complaint to be justified against all Respondents, I now address 
the appropriate remedies under s. 37(2) of the Code . 
Cease the Contravention 
[41] An order under s. 37(2)(a) is mandatory  when a complaint is found to be 
justified. Therefore, I order the Respondents to cease the contravention and refrain from 
committing the same or a similar contravention. 
Wage Loss 
[42] Ms. Root sought no compensation in the na ture of lost wages and I therefore 
make no award in respect thereof. 
Damages for Injury to Dignit y, Feeling and Self-Respect 
[43] Pursuant to s. 37(2)(d)(iii) of the Code , the Tribunal has the discretion to award 
damages for injury to dignity, feelings and self-respect. In Fougere v. Rallis and 
Kalamata Greek Taverna , 2003 BCHRT 23 at para. 133, the Tribunal set out the 
2013 BCHRT 143 (CanLII)
9 
 following, non-exhaustive list of factors it wi ll consider when assessing damages for 
injury to dignity, feelings and self-respect: 
i. The nature of the harassment, that is, was it simply verbal or was it 
physical as well?; 
ii. The degree of aggressiveness and phys ical contact in the harassment;  
iii. The ongoing nature, that is, the time period of the harassment;  
iv. The frequency of the harassment;  
v. The age of the victim;  
vi. The vulnerability of  the victim; and  
vii. The psychological impact of the harassment upon the victim.  
[44] Ms. Root cited Ratzlaff v. Marpaul Construction and another , 2010 BCHRT 13, 
in support of an award of $18,000.00, for Mr. Reed ’s treatment of her. I do not find the 
conduct in this case approaches th e severity or pervasiveness in Ratzlaff . 
[45] In this case, the harassment was in the form of three blows inflicted on a single 
night by Mr. Reed, accompanied, on at le ast one occasion by demeaning language. 
[46] As is implicit from Mr. Reed’s text me ssages, the workplace relationship with 
Ms. Root deteriorated, to her detriment. His disrespectful, de meaning conduct toward 
her, though not overtly sexua lly harassing, in tensified. 
[47] Under the circumstances, I exercise my di scretion to award Ms. Root, as damages 
for injury to dignity, feelings and self-respect, under s. 37(2)(d)(iii), the sum of $5,000.00 together with post-judgment interest, until paid in full. 
  
_____________________________ 
Bernd Walter, Chair 
 
2013 BCHRT 143 (CanLII)