THIS BOOKLET PROVIDES PUBLIC LEGAL INFORMATION ONLY.IF YOU NEED LEGAL ADVICE YOU SHOULD TALK TO A LEGAL PROFESSIONAL.2014Workplace Bullying & HarassmentThis booklet contains information on workplace bullying and harassment. It includes what workers, employers, and supervisors need to know and do, and where you can get help or more information.FREE
Glossary of Terms

Overview of workplace
bullying and harassment

What is not considered workplace
bullying or harassment?

What's Inside?

Overview of workplace
bullying and harassment

           3

Assign

Give someone a task or job
to do.

Key facts about workplace
bullying and harassment                           4

What employers need to know             6

What workers need to know                 8

Complaint

A formal statement that
someone has harmed you.

Implement

To put in place, as in to
implement a policy or
procedure.

What supervisors need
to know                                                  9

Intimidate

Make someone feel afraid.

Who can help                                        10

Must

The word "must" identifies a
legal duty or obligation of an
employer, worker, supervisor,
or organization.

 2014, People's Law School, BC

Acknowledgements:

Policy

A plan of action for how
things will be done.

Procedures

Detailed steps that say how to
perform a task.

Content writer was Gayla Reid and the legal review was

done by Danielle Scorda, a lawyer practicing in British

Self-esteem

Columbia.

The  People's  Law  School  operates  within  an  annual

budget  to  maintain  the  accuracy  and  availability  of

Target

print material. Booklets are available in print and online

Witness

formats. Please check our website or www.clicklaw.bc.ca

for current information or to download resources.

The respect you have for
yourself.

The person who is being
bullied and harassed.

Someone who saw and/
or heard the bullying and
harassment.

The  responsibility  for  using  and

interpreting  this

information is with the user.

Terms used in this glossary are
underlined on their first instance of use.

Permission  is  given  to  reproduce  this  information  for

non-commercial use and with credit to the People's Law

School. Authorization to reproduce content does not give

a  user  the  right  to  reproduce  graphic  images  without

permission of shutterstock.com.

Publisher:
The People's Law School
150 - 900 Howe Street
Vancouver, BC V6Z 2M4
www.publiclegaled.bc.ca
e: info@publiclegaled.bc.ca
t: 604.331.5400 | f: 604.331.5401

2

This  section  focuses  on  why  it  is  important  to
address  workplace  bullying  and  harassment
and  how  it  is  defined.  Examples  of  workplace
bullying and harassment are also provided.

Why is it important?

As a society, we recognize that every employee
has  the  right  to  work  in  a  safe,  respectful
workplace. Bullying and harassment are health
and safety issues.

In British Columbia, our right to health and safety
in the workplace is protected by a law called the
Workers  Compensation  Act.  The  government
gives  responsibility  to  implement  the  act  to
WorkSafeBC.

What is workplace bullying
and harassment?

WorkSafeBC  defines  workplace  bullying  and
harassment  as  "any  inappropriate  conduct  or
comment by a person towards a worker that the
person knew or reasonably should have known
would  cause  that  worker  to  be  humiliated  or
intimidated."

Workplace bullying  and  harassment  can happen
to anyone, at any workplace. The workplace can
be  large  or  small,  unionized  or  non-unionized.
The  workplace  can  be  in  the  public  sector,  the
private sector or the not-for-profit sector.

The bully may be one individual, or there may be
a group of bullies. The target of the workplace
bullying and harassment may be one person or
a group.

It is not workplace bullying or harassment when
an employer or supervisor:

*  expresses differences of opinion;
*  offers    constructive    feedback    or    advice

about work-related behaviour;
takes    reasonable    action    to    manage    a
worker's performance or to assign work; or
takes reasonable disciplinary action.

*

*

Examples of workplace bullying and
harassment

These  examples  show  some  of  the  ways  that
bullying  and    harassment    can    happen  in  the
workplace.  They  do  not  mention  all  forms  of
bullying and harassment.

If someone is bullying and or harassing you, they
might use one or more of these behaviours:

*  yells at you, insults you, or use other ways

to make you afraid;

*  spreads negative and untrue gossip about

you;

*  makes jokes that are offensive;
*
refuses to speak to you;
*  criticizes you constantly;
*  makes you do something humiliating;
*  withholds  necessary   information
or deliberately gives you the wrong
information;
interferes with your personal belongings or
work equipment;

*

*  prevents you from doing your work

properly; or

*  gives you deadlines that are impossible to

meet.

The  bully  may  use  these  behaviours  in  person,
by phone or online. When it happens online, it is
called cyber-bullying.

3




What protections do B.C. workers
have against bullying and
harassment?

*

If  someone  threatens  you,  or  constantly
watches,  follows  or  contacts  you  in  a  way
that makes you fear for your safety.

In    B.C.    there    are    protections    against
workplace  bullying  and  harassment.
is
important  that  every  worker,  manager,  and
supervisor  is  aware  of  the  law  and  policies  on
workplace bullying and harassment:

It

*  The  Workers  Compensation  Act  is  the
law that is meant to protect workers in
B.C. Recent changes to the law address
workplace bullying and harassment.
*  WorkSafeBC is the body that implements
this law. It makes policies to protect the
health and safety of workers. These policies
include policies about workplace bullying
and harassment.

*  Almost all employers in British Columbia
must register for insurance coverage with
WorkSafeBC to protect their workers. This
means that these changes apply to almost
everyone in B.C. who has a job.

*  The changes to the Workers Compensation
Act also mean that people who are bullied
or harassed in the workplace may be able to
make a claim for compensation under that
law.

When does the bullying and
harassment becomes a crime?

Some bullying and harassment may be a crime.
It  is  criminal  behaviours  when  the  bully  uses
physical force, or threatens to use it and a worker
has reason to believe his or her safety is at risk.

The following actions are considered crimes:

*

*

If  someone  at  the  workplace  hits  you  or
threatens  to  hit  you  and  you  believe  they
could, it is the crime of assault.
If  someone  forces  you  to  have  sex  without
your consent, it is the crime of sexual assault.

If  anyone  commits  any  of  these  crimes  at  the
workplace, report the incident to your supervisor
or manager, and call the police.

Is workplace bullying and harassment
the same as discrimination?

Some bullying and harassment behaviours may
also   be   considered discrimination   under   the
B.C.  Human  Rights  Code  --  such  as  when  the
behaviour involves racial or sexual discrimination
towards a worker.

The  B.C.  Human  Rights  Code  protects  workers
from  unlawful  discrimination.  Discrimination
means  that  someone  treats  you  differently  or
worse  than  others  because  of  their  prejudice
about  the  group  you  belong  to.  For  example,
the person may target you because of your race,
ethnic  origin,  sex,  disability,  age,  religion  or
belief, or sexual orientation.

For  more  information  contact  the  BC  Human
Rights Tribunal at:

1170 - 605 Robson Street
Vancouver, B.C. V6B 5J3
Phone: 604.775.2000
Fax: 604.775.2020
TTY: 604.775.2021
Toll free in B.C.: 1.888.440.8844
email: BCHumanRightsTribunal@gov.bc.ca

Key facts about workplace
bullying and harassment

How common is it?

The Canada Safety Council reports:

*  One in six employees has been bullied.

*  One in five employees has seen a coworker

bullied.

*  Workplace bullying is four times  more

common than workplace discrimination.

It    is  very  likely  that  workplace  bullying  and
harassment  is  under-reported.  It  may  be  hard
for  people  who  are  being  bullied  and  harassed
to identify what is going on. They may fear that
the bullying and harassment will get worse if they
report it.

What impact does workplace bullying
and harassment have?

Workplace bullying and harassment has a
negative impact on workers and workplaces.

How individuals are affected

People  who  are  the  targets  of  bullying  and
harassment  react  in  a  range  of  ways  which  can
include:

Who might be a bully?

Anyone  can  be  a  bully.  Some  bullies  are  easy
to  identify,  while  others  can  operate  more
deceptively.  The  bully  can  be  an  employer,
supervisor or co-worker. It can also be anyone the
worker comes into contact with at the workplace,
such as a client or a member of the public.

Bullies  are  equally  likely  to  be  men  or  women.
There are many reasons why someone acts as a
bully. For example, it may be that the bully:

*  wants to have power over someone;
*  wants  to  stop  someone  from  getting ahead

in their workplace;
is unable to get along well with other,

*
*  has low self-esteem; or
*  was not trained in how to manage.

Who might be a target of bullying
and harassment?

A  workplace  bully  is  most  likely  to  choose
someone  they  see  as  a  threat.  The  target  is
typically someone who is capable and well-liked
at the workplace.

Sometimes  people  think  that  a  bullied  person
would be someone who is  weak, and who is less
capable than the bully. This is not true. The bully
will most often target someone who knows how
to get along well with others.

frustration;
loss of self-confidence;
loss of self-esteem;

*  shock;
fear;
*
*  anger;
*
*
*
*  work-related panic or anxiety;
*
*
*
*

family tension;
low morale and productivity;
injury on the job; or
leaving the workplace.

How workplaces are affected

The  health  and  safety  of  witnesses,  coworkers
and  clients  are  also  affected.  Bullying  and
harassment can lead to:

*  workplace stress;
*  poor morale;
*  more people taking time off work;
*  a less productive workplace;
*
injuries on the job; or
*  workers leaving the job.

Bullies poison the workplace environment. Their
comments and actions are bad for people and bad
for business. They damage the trust and respect
that people have for each other at the workplace.

4

5


What employers need
to know

This section deals with the duties that employers
have under the B.C. Workers Compensation Act.
It outlines the steps employers must take in an
effort  to  prevent  or  reduce  workplace  bullying
and harassment.

Creating a respectful workplace

As  an  employer  you  can  take  steps  to  create
a  respectful  workplace  in  a  range  of  ways.  For
example:

*  build  a  workplace  culture  that  embraces

differences and promotes inclusion;

*  address  bullying  and  harassment  from  the

top down;

*  consult  with  workers  and  unions,  where

applicable; or

*  understand  how  workplace  structures  and
systems  contribute  to  workplace  bullying
and harassment.

WorkSafeBC's  website  on  bullying
and
harassment  has  a  tool  kit  of  resources  that
provides  practical  tips  and
information  for
employers about how to deal with bullying and
harassment in the workplace. You may wish to
start  with  the  handbook  Towards  a  Respectful
Workplace  at  http://www2.worksafebc.com/
pdfs/Bullying/BK137.pdf.

If  you  are  an  employer  in  small  business,
see  WorkSafeBC's  Small    Business    Guide  on
http://www2.worksafebc.com/pdfs/Bullying/
BullyingHarassmentSmallBusiness.pdf.

Duty to protect worker's health
and safety

As an employer you have a duty to protect the
health and safety of all workers who work for
you,  and  any  other  workers  who  are  at  the

workplace  where  your  work  is  being  carried
out.

Working to prevent and reduce
workplace bullying and harassment

It  is  an  employer's  duty  to  train  workers  and
supervisors  about  bullying  and  harassment,
and  to  prevent  or  reduce  any  bullying  and
harassment.

The steps you must take as an employer include:

1.  Understand  your  duties    to    prevent  and
address workplace bullying and harassment;
2.  Do not take part in bullying and harassment

of workers and supervisors;

3.  Develop  a  written  policy  statement.  This
policy  statement  should  state  clearly  that
workplace  bullying  and  harassment
is
unacceptable and will not be tolerated. You
must  make  sure  that  workers  are  aware  of
the policy statement;

4.  Develop  and

implement  policies  and
procedures  for  workers  to  report  incidents
and  complaints  of  workplace bullying and
harassment;

5.  Develop  and  implement  procedures  for
investigating incidents and complaints; and
Inform  and  train  workers  and  supervisors
about the following:

6.

*  how to recognize bullying and

harassment;

*  how workers who experience or
witness bullying and harassment
should report it;

*  where  workers  can  go  for  help  and

what help will be provided;

*  who  the  contacts  are  for  reporting

incidents; and

*  who is responsible for following up on

complaints and incidents.

As an employer you must take actions to prevent
or  reduce  workplace  bullying  and  harassment  as
much  as  possible.  For  example,  if  you  are  aware
of circumstances that present a risk of workplace
bullying and harassment you might need to:

*  provide   direction   and   supervision   to

affected workers;

*  offer training on managing difficult situations;

or

*  make workplace arrangements to reduce the

risks of bullying and harassment.

Reporting incidents

As an employer you must put procedures in place
that  state  how  you  will  deal  with  incidents  of
bullying and harassment in the workplace.

Your procedures should:

*  provide a reasonable response;
*  aim to fully address the incident;
*  make sure future bullying and harassment is
prevented or reduced as much as possible;
indicate to workers how to report bullying and
harassment;

*

*  advise workers whom they should report to;
*  state what  should be  included in  the report;
*  provide details on how an investigation will be

conducted; and

*  what follow-up will occur, including the time
frame for addressing the behaviour and
possible corrective actions.

The procedures about reporting should also include
what the worker can do if the bully is:

*

the employer, a supervisor, a person acting on
behalf of the employer or

*  a client, a customer, or someone else outside

the workplace structure.

If  you  have  a  small  business  with  few  personnel,
then  your  procedures  can  say  that  workers  can
contact  the  WorkSafeBC  prevention  information
line to report the incident.

Lower mainland 604.276.3100
Within B.C. 1.888.621.7233

Conducting an investigation

The  purpose  of  conducting  an  investigation  is  to
determine  whether  bullying  and  harassment  has
occurred.

An employer needs to make it clear to workers that
complaints will be treated seriously and addressed
promptly. Investigations should:

*

take place promptly and be as thorough as is
necessary;

*  be fair and impartial;
*  be  sensitive  to  everyone's

interests  and
maintain  confidentiality  as  much  as  possible;
and

*  provide  assistance  with  the  process  to  the
people involved if they ask for it or if they need
it.

WorkSafeBC's website on bullying and harassment
has  an  investigations  guide  that  includes  sample
questions  employers  can  ask  as  part  of  an
investigation process. It is available in the resources
section of the website.

6

7


Inspections

WorkSafeBC  will  inspect  workplaces  to  make
sure employers have taken reasonable steps to
develop  and  implement  an  effective  program
to prevent and address workplace bullying and
harassment.

What workers need to know

This section deals with the duties that workers
have under the B.C. Workers Compensation Act,
and what workers can do if they experience or
witness workplace bullying and harassment.

Duty of workers

It is the duty of every worker to take reasonable
care to protect their own health and safety and the
health and safety of others. The responsibilities
of workers in relation to workplace bullying and
harassment are the following:

*  Avoid taking part in bullying and harassment
of  anyone  you  come  into  contact  with  at
the  workplace.  This  includes  coworkers,
supervisors  and  employers.  It  also  includes
anyone  else  who  happens  to  be  at  the
workplace, such as a client, a member of the
public, or someone acting on the employer's
behalf.

*  Report  bullying  and  harassment
experience or see it happening.

if  you

*  Know  what  the  employer's  policies  are  on
workplace  bullying  and  harassment,  and
follow those policies.

and
WorkSafeBC's  website  on  bullying
harassment  has  a  tool  kit  of  resources  that
provide  practical  tips  and  information  about
how to deal with bullying and harassment in the
workplace.

You  may  wish  to  start  with  the  tool  kit's
handbook,  Towards  a  Respectful  Workplace.  It

8

has  more  information  about  what  you  can  do
if you are the target of workplace bullying and
harassment or if you witness it.

What can I do if I am the target or
witness of bullying and harassment?

If  you  experience  workplace  bullying  and
harassment  you  must  report  it.  Look  at  the
worker  checklist  in  the    resources    section
of  WorkSafeBC's  website  on  bullying  and
harassment  http://www2.worksafebc.  com/
Topics/BullyingAndHarassment/home. asp.

Here are some steps you can take:

Find out about your workplace's
policy and complaint procedures

Employers  in  B.C.  are  required  by law to have
a  policy  statement  and  complaint  procedures
on bullying and harassment.  Find out about the
policy  and  procedures  in  your  workplace.  Ask
your  employer,  the  human  resources  manager
or your union representative.

Look  at  the  workplace  policy  statement  to  see
if the behaviour meets the definition of bullying
and harassment.

Review  the  procedures.  These  should  include
the  name  of  the  person  to  contact    to  make  a
report.

If  you  cannot  find  out  what  to  do  about  the
bullying  and  harassment,  call  the  WorkSafeBC
Prevention
line  for  help.  The
prevention information line accepts anonymous
calls.

information

Lower Mainland 604.276.3100
Within BC 1.888.621.7233

Make a record of what happened

As soon as you can, write down what happened
and  record  the  following:  who  was  involved,
the  date,  time  and  place  of  the  bullying  and
harassment, who if anyone saw it, and what was
said  and  done.  This  information  may  be  useful
during an investigation. If you experience cyber-
bullying,  keep  hard  copies  of  tweets,  posts  or
emails for use in investigations.

Get some advice

You  can  get  advice  about  what    to  do  from  the
contact person named in the workplace  bullying
and harassment procedures. As well your human
resources  manager  or  union  representative  can
provide advice.

Avoid  making  allegations  about  bullying  and
harassment  to  people  who  are  not  involved  in
handling complaints.

If you feel safe and comfortable, talk to
the bully

If  you  feel    safe    and    comfortable,    you  could
approach the bully and make it clear the behaviour
is not appropriate at the workplace.

For    suggestions    about    what  to  say,  see
WorkSafeBC's    resources    for  an  animated  clip
on  Worker-to-Worker  Bullying  and  Harassment
at  http://www2.worksafebc.com/Publications/
Multimedia/Videos.asp?ReportID=37264.

Report the incident

*

the  location,  date  and  time  of  the
incident or incidents;

*  details of what was said and what was done;

and

*  any other evidence you  have  such as emails,
handwritten notes, photographs or damaged
property.

Report  all  criminal  activity  to  the  police,
including physical threats, assaults, and criminal
harassment such as stalking.

What  if  the  bullying  and  harassment
continues?

If  the  bullying  and  harassment  continues  after
the employer has investigated and addressed it,
contact the person identified in your workplace's
bullying and harassment procedures.

If    you    feel    that    your    concerns      were  not
addressed, talk to the next level of management,
the union or your professional association. Phone
the WorkSafeBC prevention information line for
help.

Lower Mainland 604.276.3100
Within B.C. 1.888.621.7233

Where can I get more information?

on

bullying

WorkSafeBC's  website
and
harassment  has  a  tool  kit  of  resources  that
information.  You
provide  practical  tips  and
can  find  it  on  http://www2.worksafebc.com/
Topics/BullyingAndHarassment/resources.
asp?reportID=37260.

Report the incident to the contact person named
in the procedures. Include as much information
as possible. For example:

What supervisors need
to know

*
*

the names of everyone involved;
the names of anyone who saw what
happened;

This section deals with the duties that supervisors
have under the B.C. Workers Compensation Act,
and  what  they  can  do  to  prevent  and  address
workplace bullying and harassment.

9



Duties of supervisors

Who can help

If  you  have  experienced  workplace  bullying
and  harassment,  help  is  available.  This  section
provides  contact  details  for  relevant  services
and information.

WorkSafeBC services
and information

Prevention information line:

Lower Mainland: 604 276-3100
Toll Free (B.C. and Alberta): 1 888 621-7233
Email: SSQUERY@worksafebc.com

Complete  the  online  form  to  find  answers  to
your questions.

To  report  a  mental  disorder  claim  contact  the
Teleclaim Contact Centre:

With BC: 1.888.967.5377
Telus, Rogers, and Bell mobility customers: #5377
Call between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m., Monday to Friday.

To learn how to keep your workplace safe from
bullying  and  harassment,  visit  WorkSafeBC's
bullying and harassment website.

WorkSafeBC  offers  a  variety  of  resources  to
support the employer, supervisor and employee
at http://www2.worksafebc.com.

BullyFreeBC

BullyFreeBC is dedicated to eliminating
workplace bullying and harassment in BC. Find
information at http://www.bullyfreebc.ca.

It is the duty of every supervisor to protect the
health  and  safety  of  all  workers  under  their
direct supervision, and to understand all of the
laws  and  regulations  that  apply  to  the  work
being supervised.

to  WorkSafeBC,

According
the  duties  of
supervisors in relation to workplace bullying and
harassment are the following:

*  Avoid taking part in bullying and harassment
of anyone you come into contact with at the
workplace.  This  includes  coworkers,  other
supervisors  and  employers.  It  also  includes
anyone  else  who  happens  to  be  at  the
workplace, such as a client, a member of the
public, or someone acting on the employer's
behalf.
If  you  experience  bullying  and  harassment,
or if you see it happening, you must report
it.

*

*  Know  what  the  employer's  policies  are  on
workplace  bullying  and  harassment,  and
follow those policies.

What if I have questions?

WorkSafeBC's      website        on        bullying  and
  kit    of  resources
harassment  has  a  tool
that  provide  practical  tips  and
information
for  supervisors.  Look  at  the  fact  sheet  for
supervisors  at  http://www2.worksafebc.com/
PDFs/Bullying/BullyingHarassmentSupervisor.
pdf.    You  can  also  use  the  tool  kit's  handbook
Towards  a  Respectful  Workplace  to  learn  more
about bullying and harassment, how to recognize
it, and what you can do about it.

If you need more information about workplace
bullying  and  harassment  call  the  WorkSafeBC
Prevention information line for help.

Lower Mainland 604.276.3100
Within B.C. 1.888.621.7233

10

Booklet Evaluation Form
Your opinion matters to us.  Please take a few
moments to tell us what you think of the
publication.

1.   Which publication did you read?

2.   How much did your understanding of the topic improve after reading the booklet?

   A lot

   A little

   Not much

3.   How do you intend to use this booklet in the future?

   Reference

   Other

   Pass it on

   Self-representation

4.   What other public legal education topics are of interest to you?

   Consumer Law

   Employment Law

   Family Law

   Tenancy Law

   Wills and Estates

   Immigration Law

   Other

5.   Do you have suggestions for improving this booklet?

Return completed evaluation form to:
People's Law School
Mail: Suite 150 - 900 Howe Street, Vancouver, BC V6Z 2M4  |  Email: info@publiclegaled.bc.ca

Evaluation forms can be filled out online at http://www.publiclegaled.bc.ca/bookletevaluation
Evaluations received by December 31 will be entered into our annual draw to win a gift.
Gift changes from year to year.

Thanks for your time and interest in public legal education - 2014.

People's Law School is a registered charitable organization (No. 88722 5795 RR).
Consider making a donation to fund our services and programs - publiclegaled.bc.ca/donate.

11










The People's Law School is a non-profit
charitable society. Our purpose is to provide British
Columbians with reliable public legal information.

THIS BOOKLET PROVIDES PUBLIC LEGAL INFORMATION ONLY.
IF YOU NEED LEGAL ADVICE YOU SHOULD TALK TO A LEGAL PROFESSIONAL.

NON-COMMERCIAL REPRODUCTION GRANTED WITH REFERENCE TO PUBLISHER - THE PEOPLE'S LAW SCHOOL (c)2014.

Other related Public Legal Information booklets include:

These booklets are available online at:

www.publiclegaled.bc.ca

www.clicklaw.bc.ca

Follow us on:

@PLSBC

People's Law School - BC

PLSBC

People's Law School acknowledges

for their financial support.

THE PEOPLE'S LAW SCHOOL
Suite 150 - 900 Howe Street, Vancouver, BC V6Z 2M4
604.331.5400 | info@publiclegaled.bc.ca

Consider making a donation to this public service.
Your donation helps us provide public legal education and information to the people of BC.
Donations over $20.00 will be provided with a tax receipt.
Please include your e-mail or physical address so a tax receipt can be sent to you.

Crown Publication order number: 7550004312