[1] Anita Behm filed a complaint (the “Compl aint”) in which she alleged that 6-4-1 
Holdings Ltd. doing business as Highway Sale s and Rentals (“HSR”), Edna Melgaard, 
and Rick Burnett (together the “Respondent s”) discriminated against her regarding 
employment because of sex, contrary to s. 13 of the Human Rights Code , which reads: 
13  (1) A person must not  
(a) refuse to employ or refuse to continue to employ a person, or 
(b) discriminate against a pers on regarding employment or any 
term or condition of employment 
because of the … sex … of that person…. 
[2] Ms. Behm alleges that Mr. Burnett se xually harassed her during her employment 
at HSR and that, as a result, she could not c ontinue to work there.  The Respondents deny 
the allegations. 
[3] An act done by an employee of a company is deemed to be an act done by that 
company:  Code , s. 44(2). 
[4] I will first review the evidence of the w itnesses.  After addressing credibility, I 
will make my decision based on my findings of fact and the law.  There are portions of 
the evidence I do not refer to as they are not necessary to my decision. 
2. Witnesses 
[5] In addition to testifying on her own behalf, Ms. Behm called the following 
witnesses: Randal Behm, her husband; Nora Heans, who was employed at HSR at the 
front counter from April 2005 until March 2006, when she wa s fired by Ms. Melgaard; 
and Gerald Clark, a current em ployee who has worked with Mr. Burnett for many years.  
Mr. Clark spends about 50% of his time in th e parts department.  He also spends time 
with the mechanics, and is back and fo rth to the front counter throughout the day. 
[6] There were four witnesses on behalf of the Respondents:  Ms. Melgaard, the sole 
officer and director of HSR; Mr. Burne tt, who was employed by Ms. Melgaard or her 
1 
2008 BCHRT 286 (CanLII)
husband at other businesses they operated between 1977 and 1992, and who has worked 
at HSR since it was incorporated in 1992; Susan Chambers, who worked on Saturdays at 
HSR during Ms. Behm’s employment; and Kimb erly Bradshaw, who worked at the front 
counter at HSR from January until December 1999. 
3. Evidence 
A. Background 
[7] HSR sells, rents, and repairs machinery and construction equipment, and operates 
a gravel mart.  Ms. Melgaard is at HSR from 7:00 a.m., six days a week.  Her office is 
behind a one-way mirror. 
[8] Mr.  Burnett also worked six days a week.  He described his position as 
manager/supervisor/mechanic/purchasing agent.  He reported to Ms. Melgaard. 
[9] In 2006, Ms. Behm was employed at a liquor store, where she worked 35 
hours/week during the summer mo nths.  In the fall, her hours were reduced significantly. 
She also worked part-time at a beer and wi ne store where Mr. Burnett was a customer.  
Ms. Behm mentioned to him that she was looking for additional employment, and he 
suggested that she bring her resumé into HS R because it needed a front counter clerk. 
[10] W h e n  M s .  B e h m  c am e t o  H S R  w it h  h e r  resumé, Mr. Burnett introduced her to 
Ms. Melgaard.  They agreed that Ms. Behm wo uld start to work at the front counter on a 
trial basis.  Her shifts were scheduled on a day-by-day basis. 
[11] Ms. Behm’s responsibilities were to answ er the telephone, assist customers and 
keep track of articles on the computer as they were rented  and returned.  Mr. Burnett 
would train her on the front counter duties.  She also did cleani ng and assisted Ms. 
Melgaard as needed. 
[12] Ms. Behm’s first day of work was October 5, 2006.  Her last day of work was 
October 25.  During that twenty-day period, she worked 11 shifts.  She did not have a set 
schedule; Ms. Melgaard discussed with her at the end of the day when to next come in.  
Ms. Behm was working at HSR around her hours of work at the beer and wine store. 
 2
2008 BCHRT 286 (CanLII)
[13] Ms. Behm alleged four incidents of sexua l harassment:  (a) a comment made by 
Mr. Burnett; (b) an article about women over 40; (c) a request made by Mr. Burnett for a 
hug; and (c) Mr. Burnett’s cupping her buttock with his hand.  I will deal w ith each in 
turn. 
B. Alleged incidents 
a. 
b. 
c. Comment 
[14] Ms. Behm testified that, as she and Mr. Bu rnett were walking to the computer, she 
stopped and said to him, “You go ahead.”  He responded, “No, no, no, I like the view 
from behind.”  She pulled her sweater dow n to indicate that the comment was 
unwelcome.  Mr. Burnett said, “Sorry, sorry , sorry.”  Ms. Behm did nothing further 
because of the apology.  She testified that she was satisfied with the apology, although 
she did not forget about the incident.  She mentioned it to her husband. 
[15] Mr. Burnett denied making this comment.  He said that, on one occasion, he and 
Ms. Behm were walking side by side.  She went to the office; he told her that he was taking the “scenic route” to the shop. 
Article 
[16] Ms. Behm said that Mr. Burnett had an article about women over 40, which stated 
that they had a higher sex drive.  He asked her whether this applied to her.  She shrugged 
but did not respond.  She did not men tion this incident to her husband. 
[17] Mr. Burnett did not recall th is incident or asking Ms.  Behm any questions about 
such an article.  He said, if he had had such  an article on his desk, he would have covered 
it with a book.  
Hug 
[18] Ms. Behm said that, on October 21, she and Mr. Burnett were sitting at their 
computers.  Mr. Burnett beckoned Ms. Behm w ith two fingers.  When she went over to 
him, he asked her for a hug.  She did not know wh at to do.  She wanted  to “fit in”, so she 
went to give him a small hug.  He pushed her away and said, “No, no.”  Ms. Behm told 
 3
2008 BCHRT 286 (CanLII)
her husband about this incident.  He suggested that she quit.  Because they needed the 
money, Ms. Behm said she would continue at HSR and begin to look for another job. 
[19] Ms. Behm said that Mr. Clark and Ms.  Chambers were standing nearby and 
witnessed this incident. 
[20] Mr. Burnett denied that he ever motioned to Ms. Behm to come to him or asked 
her for a hug.  He testified that it was common at HSR for an employee who was having a bad day to say, “I need a hug.”  The comment was not directed at a nyone in particular. 
Mr. Burnett estimated that he made this  comment at work about 30 times a year. 
[21] Both Mr. Clark and Ms. Chambers testifie d that they did not see this incident. 
[22] Both Mr. Clark and Ms. Melgaard stated that “I need a hug” was an expression 
frequently used at HSR, and that it wa s not directed to anyone in particular. 
d. Cupping buttock 
[23] Ms. Behm did not work between October 22 and 24.  On October 25, both she and 
Mr. Burnett were at the front counter.  He was sitting at hi s computer; she was standing 
slightly behind him on his right side.  Ms. Be hm testified that Mr. Burnett pushed back 
his chair, swivelled to the ri ght, and cupped her left  buttock with his right hand.  It was 
not incidental contact.  She backed away from him, saying, “Nobody touches this.”  Mr. 
Burnett raised both his hands a nd said, “Sorry, sorry, sorry.” 
[24] She then went into Ms. Melgaard’s offi ce (Ms. Melgaard was not at work) and 
telephoned her husband, who told her to get out of the workplace. 
[25] Ms. Behm came out of the office and told Mr. Burnett she had to go home 
because her daughter was sick.  Ms. Behm mentioned her daughter’s first name, which 
was the same as one of Ms. Behm’s co-worke rs.  Mr. Burnett took three $20 bills out of 
his wallet, telling her to ta ke the money for the individu al who was sick.  Ms. Behm 
declined several times.  When she told hi m that she did not know what was wrong with 
the individual, Mr. Burnett said that she should keep it for he rself.  He put the money in 
her bag; she threw it at him and left. 
[26] Ms. Behm denied speaking to Ms. Melg aard on October 23 and asking for full 
time hours.  Ms. Behm said that this conversation occurred before October 21. 
 4
2008 BCHRT 286 (CanLII)
[27] Mr. Burnett said that, on Oc tober 25, he and Ms. Behm were both sitting at their 
computers at the front counter.  She was to his right.  A call came in which she answered 
and then transferred to his phone.  He swerve d to his left to answer the telephone.  Mr. 
Burnett’s back was to Ms. Behm.  He did not know that she had gotten up.  As he 
swivelled back to his right to get up, he ca me out of his chair more quickly than he 
expected because of the spring in the chair.   Ms. Behm was leani ng on the counter with 
her left elbow.  He unintentionally touched her buttock.  Ms. Behm told him never to 
touch her again and he immediately apologize d, saying, “Sorry, sorry” as he lifted his 
hands up. 
[28] Ms. Behm went into Ms. Melgaard’s offi ce.  When she came out, she provided the 
name of her daughter, saying she was sick, and that she had to go pick her up.  Mr. 
Burnett thought that Ms. Behm was referri ng to the employee at HSR with the same 
name; he did not know that Ms. Behm had a da ughter with that name.  He knew that this 
employee did not carry cash.  Because Ms. Behm had told him that morning that she was “broke”, he offered her $20 in case she had to pick up any medication at a drugstore for 
the employee.  He then took another $20 from the till and also offered it to Ms. Behm.  
When she said that she did not need it, he put $20 back in the til l and $20 in his wallet. 
C. Events after October 25 
[29] The next day, Ms. Melgaard telephoned Ms.  Behm and inquired why she was not 
at work.  Ms. Behm asked if Mr. Burnett had told her what had happened.  Ms. Melgaard said that Mr. Burnett told her that he had accidentally touched her.  Ms. Behm told Ms. Melgaard, “No, he grabbed my buttock.” 
[30] Ms. Behm then told Ms. Melgaard about th e other incidents.  She had not told her 
about them earlier because she was a new empl oyee.  Further, Ms. Melgaard had told her 
at the beginning of her employment that Mr . Burnett had been her late husband’s best 
friend, which made Ms. Behm very reluct ant to complain about his behaviour. 
[31] Ms. Melgaard responded that Mr. Burnett wa s such a nice guy, he would never do 
anything like that.  Ms. Behm re ferred to an incident which Mr. Clark had told her about 
when Mr. Burnett had been intoxicated at work.  Ms. Melgaard answered that that 
 5
2008 BCHRT 286 (CanLII)
incident had occurred years ago.  Ms. Melgaard  told Ms. Behm that she would speak with 
other current and former female employees to  see if they had had any problems with Mr. 
Burnett. 
[32] Ms. Melgaard asked Ms. Behm if she would be returning to work.  She responded, 
“not unless Mr. Burnett gets help.”  She stated  that she would be handing in her hours.  In 
a subsequent telephone conversation, Ms. Melgaa rd told her that sh e had spoken to other 
female employees and that was as far as she could go. 
[33] On October 29, Ms. Behm faxed a complaint to Ms. Melgaard.  She filed the 
Complaint on December 7, 2006. 
[34] Ms. Behm testified that, after faxing her complaint to Ms. Melgaard, Mr. Burnett 
slowly drove by the beer and wi ne store while she was worki ng and leered at her.  Mr. 
Burnett denied this allegation.  To the contrary , he said that he went out of his way to 
avoid Ms. Behm. 
[35] Ms. Behm also said that, in November , Ms. Heans, whom she had gone to high 
school with but did not know well, came into the beer and wine store.  She told Ms. 
Behm that she had worked at HSR and had heard Mr. Burnett make sexual comments. 
D. Ms. Melgaard’s evidence 
[36] Ms. Melgaard testified that, on October 23, Ms. Behm telephoned from one of her 
other places of employment.  Speaking quietly , Ms. Behm told her that she had “had it 
with this job”.  She said she liked working at HSR and asked Ms. Melgaard if she could 
have full time hours at HSR. 
[37] On October 25, Ms. Behm worked with Ms. Melgaard in her office all morning.  
She asked Ms. Behm whether she had given no tice at her other job.  Ms. Behm responded 
that she had not, but she would be giving it soon. 
[38] On the last Wednesday of every month, Ms. Melgaard has to leave the office at 
1:30 p.m.  (October 25 was a Wednesday.)  She received a telephone call from Ms. 
Behm, who told her that she could not work  at HSR anymore because “Rick had touched 
my bum and tried to give me money.”  Ms. Be hm also told her about the Comment.  Ms. 
 6
2008 BCHRT 286 (CanLII)
Melgaard asked her if she was being oversen sitive about the Comment; Ms. Behm said 
she was not.  She did not tell Ms. Melgaard  about the Hug.  Ms. Behm said that she 
would fax her hours. 
[39] Ms. Melgaard responded that it did not sound like Mr. Burnett.  Her office is 
behind a one-way mirror and she had never se en any impropriety.  She spoke to Mr. 
Burnett later that day; he e xplained to her that it had b een an accidental touching.  Ms. 
Melgaard asked him about the money.  Mr. Burnett responded that he thought it was 
another employee who was sick, and that he did not know Ms. Behm had a daughter with 
the same name. 
[40] Ms. Melgaard stated that she did not r eceive a fax from Ms. Behm.  On October 
26, Ms. Melgaard called Ms. Behm, who stated that she was thinking of taking the matter 
further. 
E. Other evidence 
[41] With the exception of the impact on his wife, all of Mr. Behm’s evidence 
regarding the alleged incidents was based on what he had been told by Ms. Behm. 
[42] Ms. Heans testified that she heard Mr. Burnett make sexual comments about a 
female employee’s breasts and body, but sh e could not recall anything specific. 
[43] Neither Ms. Bradshaw, Ms. Chambers or Mr. Clark saw Mr. Burnett act in an 
inappropriate manner, or heard him make any sexual or crude comments. 
4. Decision 
[44] For the following reasons, I find Ms. Behm’s allegation of sexual harassment 
justified. 
5. Reasons 
[45] Because of contradictions in the evidence of the witnesses, determination of their 
credibility is necessary, as is the determin ation of reasonable inferences which can be 
drawn from the facts.  In assessing credibilit y, I am mindful not only of such factors as 
the witness’ demeanour, pow ers of observation, opportun ity for knowledge, judgement 
 7
2008 BCHRT 286 (CanLII)
and memory, and ability to desc ribe clearly what was seen an d heard, but also of whether 
the evidence of the witness is in “harmony with the preponderance of the probabilities 
which a practical and informed person would re adily recognize as reason able in that place 
and in those conditions”: Faryna v. Chorny , [1952] 2 D.L.R. 354 (B.C.C.A.) at 357. 
[46] While Ms. Behm was an emotional witne ss, I found her evidence persuasive.  
With the exception of the Article, she gave detailed evidence about the incidents in a 
manner which satisfied me that she was testif ying from her memory.  Where her evidence 
is at odds with the evidence of another witness, I prefer hers. 
[47] In particular, I prefer Ms. Behm’s eviden ce to Mr. Burnett’s.  Especially with 
respect to the October 25 inci dent, I found his explanation of how he inadvert ently sprang 
out of his chair and touched Ms. Behm’s buttock unconvincing. 
[48] I note that neither Ms. Behm’s October 29 complaint faxed to Ms. Melgaard nor 
the Complaint referred to the Article.  Furt her, Ms. Behm did not tell her husband about 
it.  She mentioned it in her testimony when as ked if there were any incidents that she had 
not included in her Complaint.  However, especially in contrast to her evidence about the 
other three incidents, her evid ence about the Article was vagu e.  For these reasons, I do 
not consider it in my decision. 
[49] It is well-settled that sexual ha rassment is sex discrimination: Janzen v. Platy 
Enterprises Ltd . (1989), 10 C.H.R.R. D/6205 (S.C.C .)   The Court provided a nonexhaustive definition of sexual harassment: 
… sexual harassment in the workpl ace may be broadly defined as 
unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature th at detrimentally affects the work 
environment or leads to adverse job- related consequences for the victims 
of the harassment….  When sexual harassment occurs in the workplace, it 
is an abuse of both economic and se xual power.  Sexual harassment is a 
demeaning practice, one that constitu tes a profound affront to the dignity 
of the employees forced to endure it.  By requiring an employee to contend 
with unwelcome sexual actions or explicit sexual demands, sexual harassment in the workplace attacks th e dignity and self-respect of the 
victim both as an employee and as a human being. (at para. 44451) 
[50] I accept Ms. Behm’s evidence regarding the Comment, and find that Mr. Burnett 
told her, as she walked in front of him, that he “liked the view from behind.” 
 8
2008 BCHRT 286 (CanLII)
[51] Despite the fact that Mr. Clark and Ms. Ch ambers denied witnessing this incident, 
I find the Hug occurred as te stified to by Ms. Behm on Oct ober 21.  Mr. Clark gave his 
evidence in a rather flippant manner and I di d not find it persuasive.  While this was not 
the case with Ms. Chambers, it may simply be that the incident was not as important to 
her as it was to Ms. Behm.  It seems that Mr . Burnett was intoxicated when this incident 
took place which may explain his inability to recall it. 
[52] I believe Ms. Melgaard confused her da tes when she testified that Ms. Behm 
telephoned her on October 23 and inquired about getting full time hours at HSR.  I accept 
Ms. Behm’s evidence that this conversation occurred before October 21.  I also accept 
Mr. Behm’s evidence that, after his wife told  him what had occurred on that day, they 
agreed that she would look for another job. 
[53] As stated above, I find that Mr. Burnett’ s attempt to character ize his touching Ms. 
Behm’s buttock as inadvertent is not credib le.  I accept her evidence  that he cupped her 
buttock and that she continued to feel the pressure of his hand after the contact ended. 
[54] In reaching this finding, I also take into account Mr. Burnett’s subsequent 
behaviour in offering Ms. Behm money.  I fi nd his explanation completely unconvincing.  
First, there was no evidence about any friendship between Ms. Behm and the employee to whom Mr. Burnett said he believed she wa s referring to explain why that employee 
would contact Ms. Behm at work if she were sick.  Second, there was no evidence to explain why, if Mr. Burnett did believe that  Ms. Behm was leaving work to pick this 
employee up, he did not think that she could use her bank card to purchase any 
medication she might require. 
[55] I find that Mr. Burnett cupped Ms. Behm’s buttock and that this contact was not 
inadvertent. 
[56] I find that these three incidents const itute sexual harassment as they were 
unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature which detrimentally affected Ms. Behm’s work 
environment.  I conclude that  Mr. Burnett discriminated agai nst Ms. Behm on the basis of 
sex, contrary to s. 13 of the Code . 
 9
2008 BCHRT 286 (CanLII)
6. Remedy 
[57] The Respondents submitted that the allegations against Ms. Melgaard should be 
dismissed under s. 27(1)(c) because she was acti ng in her capacity as an officer of HSR 
and not in her personal capacity.   The Tribunal’s Rules of Practice and Procedure  
contemplate that applications under s. 27(1) be pursued on a preliminary basis:  
Kovacevic v. Pacific Palisades Hotel (No. 2),  2006 BCHRT 108, paras. 32-36. 
A. Injury to dignity 
[58] Ms. Behm is seeking $15,000 as compensation for injury to her dignity. 
[59] Ms. Behm testified that, even tho ugh Mr. Burnett apologized and she was 
prepared to continue working at HSR, sh e was embarrassed by the Comment.  She told 
her husband about it that evening.  He testified that she was upset. 
[60] Regarding the Hug, Ms. Behm said that she felt embarrassed when Mr. Burnett 
beckoned her over to him and did not know what  to do.  When he pushed her away, she 
felt stupid, as though she had been the one “co ming on” to him.  Mr. Behm’s evidence 
was that his wife was upset, and told him she felt stupid and humiliated.  He suggested she quit, even though she has never quit a job. 
[61] Ms. Behm said that, after the October 25 incident, she was in shock.  She did not 
know what to do.  She telephoned her husband.  He said that she sounded like a “scared 
kid” and that her voice was shaking.  He told  her to get out of HSR.  When she asked 
what she should say, he told her to say their daughter was sick.  Mr. Behm asked his wife 
to call him when she had left. 
[62] Ms. Behm testified that she was so upset  as she drove away from HSR that she 
almost hit another car.  She pulled over to  the side of the ro ad and telephoned her 
husband.  She told him that Mr. Burnett had tried to give her $60.  Mr. Behm arranged for someone to take over from him and left work early.  He testified th at, when he arrived 
home, his wife was “shocked, freaked out , devastated, shaking and crying.” 
[63] Mr. Behm described his wife as normally self-reliant.  After October 25, she had 
feelings of depression and withdrew into herself.  When stressed, she picks at her face, 
 10
2008 BCHRT 286 (CanLII)
and she began to do this.  She went to see her doctor, who suggested both antidepressants and counselling.  She discussed th is with her husband, and they decided that 
they would deal with the situation themselves. 
[64] Despite Mr. Behm’s description of th e impact on his wife of the sexual 
harassment, she was able to cont inue her part-time employment. 
[65] Section 37(2)(d)(iii) gives the Tribunal the authority to pay compensation for 
injury to dignity, feelings and self-resp ect in an amount the Tribunal considers 
appropriate. 
[66] Torres v. Royalty Kitchenware Ltd. (1982), 3 C.H.R.R. D/858 (Ont. Bd. Inq.) 
listed some factors to take into account in assessing the appropr iate compensation for 
injury to dignity in sexual harassment cases.  Those factor s were adopted by the Tribunal 
in Fougere v. Rallis and Kalamata Greek Taverna , 2003 BCHRT 23, para. 133: 
1. the nature of the harassment, that is, was it simply verbal or was it 
physical as well? 
2. the degree of aggressiveness and ph ysical contact in the harassment; 
3. the ongoing nature, that is, the time period of the harassment; 
4. the frequency of the harassment; 
5. the age of the victim; 
6. the vulnerability of the victim; and 
7. the psychological impact of the harassment upon the victim. 
[67] In Clarke v. Frenchies Montreal Sm oked Meats Ltd. and Blais (No. 2) , 2007 
BCHRT 153 (“ Frenchies ”) the Tribunal awarded $4,000 as compensation for injury to 
dignity.  In that case, the complainant was 19;  the individual responde nt about 55.  It was 
only her second job.  The Tribunal found th at the individual respondent had taken 
advantage of the complainant’s vulnerability  by subjecting her to numerous comments 
that created a sexualized workplace.  In addi tion, there was some phys ical contact.  On 
one occasion, the individual respondent had slapped the complainant’s hand away from 
her face.  On another occasion, he invited physical contact by asking the complainant to 
sit on his lap. 
 11
2008 BCHRT 286 (CanLII)
[68] Ms. Clarke sought $4,000 as compensation for injury to dignity.  The Tribunal 
noted that the cases she relied on were olde r sexual harassment decisions, and that the 
Tribunal’s awards for compensation for injury to dignity had increas ed over the years:  
Frenchies, para. 159.  The Tribunal  awarded Ms. Clarke $4,000, stating that it would 
have been inclined to order substantially greater compensation for injury to dignity for 
the sexual harassment she had suffered, but di d not do so as that was the amount sought 
and Ms. Clarke was represented by counsel. 
[69] While Mr. Burnett is older than Ms. Behm, this was not a case where she was an 
inexperienced, young employee.  Both were matu re adults.  There was one comment, one 
touching, and one invitation for a hug. 
[70] The circumstances in this case are not at all similar to those where that Tribunal 
has awarded amounts in the range of $15,000.  In my view, an award of $5,000 is 
appropriate compensation for injury to Ms. Behm’s dignity, feeli ngs, and self-respect. 
B. Lost wages 
[71] Ms. Behm is seeking lost wages in th e amount of $1,200 for the period October 
25 until December 1, when she obtained another job as a cleaner. 
[72] Ms. Behm testified that, after the end of  her employment at HSR, she looked for 
work by word-of-mouth, which is how she ob tained both her part-time jobs and her 
employment at HSR.  Through her husban d, she learned that there might be an 
opportunity for a part-time job as a cleaner at  his place of employment.  Ms. Behm stated 
that she hoped to obtain this position. 
[73] Ms. Behm had previously been succe ssful finding employment through word-ofmouth, and, in my view, it was not unreasonable for her to follow the same process initially.  In my view, she did not broaden her job search because she hoped to obtain the 
position with her husband’s employer.  I find that, after two weeks, it would have been reasonable for her to broaden her job search.  By not diligently l ooking for other work, 
Ms. Behm failed to mitigate her damages.  I do not think that the Respondents should be 
liable for her lost wages beyond this two-week period. 
 12
2008 BCHRT 286 (CanLII)
[74] During her 11 shifts between October 5 and 25, Ms. Behm worked a total of 75 
hours at $10/hour and 2½ hours overtime at $15/hour, for total earnings of $787.50.  For 
another ten-day period, she would have earned approximately $393.75. 
7. Retaliation 
[75] Ms. Behm did not file a co mplaint of retaliation.  Therefore, I cannot make a 
finding regarding this allegation. 
8. Conclusion 
[76] Having found the complaint justified, I make the following orders pursuant to ss. 
37(2)(a), 37(2)(d)(ii), an d 37((2)(d)(iii) of the Code : 
• I order the Respondents to  cease the contraventi on and to refrain from 
committing the same or a similar contravention; 
• I order the Respondents to pay Ms. Behm compensation for lost wages in the 
amount of $393.75: and 
• I order the Respondents to pay Ms. Be hm compensation for injury to her 
dignity, feelings and self-r espect in the amount of $5,000. 
[77] The Respondents are jointly and severally  responsible for the compensation 
ordered. 
 
 
 
 
 Barbara Humphreys, Tribunal Member
 
 13
2008 BCHRT 286 (CanLII)