[1] Kori Harrison filed a complaint against Nixon Safety Consulting Inc. (“NSC”), 
Con-Forte Contracting Co. Ltd. (“Con-Fort e”), Navigator Deve lopment Corporation 
(“Navigator”), and Greg Ford, in which sh e alleges that the respondents discriminated 
against her in employment on the basis of sex (sexual harassment), contrary to s. 13 of 
the Human Rights Code . 
[2] Con-Forte, Navigator and Mr. Ford deny that they discriminated against Ms. 
Harrison in any way.  NSC participated in the complaint process to a limited extent, filing 
a response in which it also denied discrimi nating against Ms. Harrison.  On October 27, 
2006, NSC’s counsel notified the Tribunal and th e other parties that he was withdrawing 
from the record.  Counsel went on to provide the mailing address for NSC, as listed in the 
Alberta Corporate Registration system on October 27 2006.  Thereafter, the Tribunal forwarded all notices concerning the comp laint to NSC at that address.   
[3] The Notice of Hearing and a subsequent No tice of Rescheduled Hearing were sent 
to NSC at the above-noted address, but no one attended the hearing on behalf of NSC.  Pursuant to Rules  7 and 9 of the Tribunal’s Rules of Practice and Procedure , a party to a 
complaint is deemed to have received correspondence from the Tribunal if that 
correspondence is sent to the last mailing address provided by a party.  I am satisfied that 
NSC had notice of the hearing. 
2. Decision 
[4] For the reasons which follow, I find that  Mr. Ford sexually harassed Ms. Harrison 
and that NSC terminated her employment when she complained.  I find that NSC 
terminated her employment at the urging of Navigator, and with the tacit approval of 
Con-Forte.  At the end of this decision, I set out the remedies I have ordered, and a direction on further submissions. 
2 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
3. Organization of the Decision 
[5] After listing the witnesses called by the parties, I set out background information, 
and review the witnesses’ evidence.  I then se t out my findings of fact .  Finally, I give my 
analysis, incorporating the s ubmissions of the parties, an d give my decision on the 
complaint.  Unless otherwise stated, any colle ctive reference to the respondents does not 
include NSC.   
[6] In coming to my decision, I have consider ed all the evidence, and all the written 
and oral submissions, provided by  the parties.  However, I set out only that which is 
necessary to put the conclusions I reach in co ntext.  In making credibility findings, I note 
that I am entitled to accept some, no ne, or all of each witness’ testimony. 
4. The Witnesses 
[7] For Ms. Harrison, I heard from her, Ma rio Curatolo, Cory Krebs, and Niall 
Campbell.  For the respondents, I hear d from Greg Ford, Rod Goodman, Dave 
Westbrook, Marco DeDominicis, Steven Brown, Jack Kinakin, Nick Piattelli, and David 
French. 
[8] In assessing the witnesses’ evidence, I have kept in mind the often repeated 
observation of the B.C. Court of Appeal in Faryna v. Chorny , [1952] 2 D.L.R. 354 at p. 
357, that the real test of the truth of a witness’ testimony is the harmony of that person’s 
story with what a practical and informed pe rson would readily recognize as reasonable, in 
that place and in those conditions. 
[9] For reasons set out later in this decision, in  key areas, I prefer the evidence of Ms. 
Harrison and her witnesses to  the respondents’ evidence. 
5. Background 
[10] During the time period relevant to the co mplaint, Navigator,  Con-Forte and NSC 
were all companies incorporated in Alberta, with head offices in Calgary.  Mr. DeDominicis was the sole owner of Con-Forte and a part owner of Navigator.  He was 
president of both companies.   
3 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[11] Navigator was incorporated in early 2005, while Con-Forte was formed in 1976.  
Navigator was created as a single purpose entity solely to build a multi-story concrete 
condominium project in Kelowna known as the “Lofts”.  According to Mr. DeDominicis, Navigator sub-contracted with Con-Forte, prob ably verbally, for it to do “cast in place” 
concrete work on the Lofts.    
[12] Jason Nixon owned and operated NSC,  which employed Kathy Burton, a 
Certified Safety Officer (“CSO”).  Mr . Nixon and Ms. Burton both worked out of 
Calgary.  On safety issues, NSC reported to  Mr. Westbrook, Navigato r’s senior project 
manager for the Lofts, who in turn  reported to Mr. DeDominicis.   
[13] In about July 2005, Mr. Westbrook contracted with Mr. Ford to be Navigator’s on 
site project manager at the Lofts.  The contra ct of employment was initially verbal.  Mr. 
Ford did not sign a written contract until 2006.   Con-Forte contracted with Mr. Goodman 
to superintend its on site operations.   
[14] Messrs. Westbrook, Goodman and Ford were all independent contractors.  After 
they began working at the Lofts, Mr. Ford and Mr. Goodman shared an office rented by 
Navigator and located adjacent to the cons truction site.  Although Mr. Westbrook visited 
the site on a regular basis, he was based in Calgary.   
[15] Mr. Nixon, on behalf of NSC, and Mr . Westbrook, on behalf of Navigator, 
entered into a contract for NSC to provide site safety services during the Lofts’ construction.  On October 7, 2005, Navigato r confirmed the contract with a purchase 
order, issued under Mr. We stbrook’s signature.     
[16] Soon after October 7, Mr. Nixon hired Ms. Ha rrison to work for NSC at the Lofts 
as a safety officer.  Mr. Nixon hired her af ter she had an initial meeting with Mr. 
Goodman.  Ms. Harrison and Mr. Nixon never met in person.   
[17] At the time of the hearing, Ms. Harrison was 27 years old, and a single mother of 
three children, for whom she received no financial support.  She and her children lived with her grandmother.  After graduating from  high school, she took some courses at a 
local college.  When she began working for NSC, she had some background in the 
4 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
construction industry.  When she started at th e Lofts, she had her Level Three first aid 
certificate, but was not qualified as a CSO. 
[18] Ms. Harrison began working for NSC on October 18, 2005.  Her employment was 
subject to a three month pr obation period, ending January 18, 2006.  She was to work a 
five day, forty hour week, at a rate of $20 per hour. 
[19] When she started working, Ms. Harrison jo ined Mr. Ford and Mr. Goodman in the 
site office located immediately adjacent to th e Lofts.  Construction was at a preliminary 
stage when she first started, as a building permit had not yet been issued.     
[20] On November 4, 2005, Ms. Harrison complained to Mr. Goodman about Mr. 
Ford.  The nature of her complaint is in disput e.  I will return to th is issue later in the 
decision. 
[21] On December 8, 2005, Ms. Harrison complained to Mr. Nixon about Mr. Ford 
sexually harassing her at the workplace.  The valid ity of that complaint is also in dispute.  
Again, I will also return to th is issue later in the decision. 
[22] Mr. Nixon, Mr. Westbrook, and Mr. Dedomin icis made enquiries about Ms. 
Harrison’s December 8 complaint.  Thereafte r, Mr. Westbrook instructed Mr. Goodman 
to see to it that Ms. Harrison and Mr. Ford  worked in separate locations on the 
construction site.  Ms. Harrison made no fu rther allegations against Mr. Ford after 
December 8. 
[23] On December 9, Mr. Ford, through his lawyer, notified Ms. Harrison that he 
believed she was defaming him with her allegations, and cautioned her to stop. 
[24] On December 13, Mr. Nixon reprimanded Ms.  Harrison, in writing, for being late 
for work on December 12 and 13.  On Dece mber 18, 2005, Mr. Westbrook complained to 
Mr. Nixon that Ms. Harrison wa s being disruptive on the wo rk site.  On December 20, 
2005, Mr. Nixon terminated Ms. Harrison’s employment.  She filed her human rights 
complaint on January 27, 2006. 
5 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
6. The Evidence  
A. Ms. Harrison’s Evidence 
[25] Mr. Curatolo, Ms. Harrison’s boyfriend, was instrumental in Ms. Harrison getting 
a job with NSC.  In September 2005, Mr. Cu ratolo spoke to his friend, Mr. Goodman, 
and learned that the Lofts proj ect needed a safety officer.  Mr. Curatolo suggested that 
Ms. Harrison would be a good prospect for th e position.  After their conversation, Mr. 
Curatolo told Ms. Harrison about the job oppor tunity and gave her Mr. Goodman’s name.  
Mr. Curatolo heard later that Mr. Goodman had recommended Ms. Harrison for the job. 
[26] At the hearing, Ms. Harrison confirmed that Mr. Curatolo  had told her that Mr. 
Goodman was looking for a site  safety officer.  She phoned Mr. Goodman, and he invited 
her to the Lofts’ site office for an interv iew.  Ms. Harrison was excited about the job 
opportunity.  She hoped to become qualified as a CSO, and wanted more experience as 
an on-site safety officer. 
[27] Ms. Harrison went to the site office, intr oduced herself to Mr. Goodman, and gave 
him her resume.  They talked about her safe ty training and her previous work at other 
construction sites.  While he did not ask her if she was a CSO, she told him that she was 
scheduled to take more safety courses in November 2005, to which he replied that she 
would have to speak to Mr. Nixon of NSC about her plan.  Mr. Goodman told her she 
would get a call from Mr. Nixon, telling her when she would start, and the meeting 
ended.  Although Mr. Ford was in the office and introduced himself, the conversation 
was primarily between Ms. Ha rrison and Mr. Goodman.   
[28] Soon after the meeting with Mr. Goodma n, Mr. Nixon called Ms. Harrison at her 
home.  During the conversation, in which Mr . Nixon offered her the job, she told Mr. 
Nixon that she was enrolled to ta ke a safety officer course in November, and he said he 
would be willing to pay for it.  He did not  mention that she woul d be on probation to 
start.  He also told Ms. Harrison that she wa s to do some filing and other support work for 
Navigator, but not for Con-Forte. 
[29] Mr. Nixon told Ms. Harrison that he woul d send her the necessary safety manuals 
for the job site, and that it was her jo b to enforce the rules he put in place. 
6 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[30] On Ms. Harrison’s first day of work, sh e met with Mr. Goodman, who went over 
the site plans with her.  They discusse d what trades would be used, the various 
documentation that had to be arranged, including Workers Compensation Board 
(“WCB”) paperwork, and the supplies needed fo r the office.  They also discussed plans 
for establishing a first aid trailer.  A tra iler owned by another construction company had 
to be removed from the job site before a fi rst aid trailer could be put into position.  The 
intended trailer also had to be extensively re novated and stocked with  first aid supplies. 
[31] On her first day, Ms. Harrison went with Mr. Ford to buy office supplies, 
including three journals.  The journals we re intended for use by her, Mr. Goodman and 
Mr. Ford in relation to the Lofts construc tion.  According to Ms. Harrison, after she 
began work at the Lofts, she made entrie s periodically throughout the day, but did not 
necessarily record things in the order in which events occurred.  
[32] A review of her journal confirms that it  is a relatively detailed record of Ms. 
Harrison’s daily work-related activities at the Lo fts.  In it, she sets out the various things 
she did for Mr. Ford and, to a lesser extent, for others worki ng at the Lofts, including Mr. 
Goodman.  For the most part, she did not reco rd personal concerns in the journal, with 
the exception of the entries such as thos e for November 4, December 8, and December 
20, three key dates in the complaint.  These and other entries in he r journal are set out 
later in this decision.  
[33] Ms. Harrison testified about several conversations she had on or about October 
19.  She alleges that during a conversation with  Mr. Ford, he told her that he had once 
used hard drugs, but that sex was now his vice of  choice.  She also alleges that he told her 
that he would put in a good word for her at work if she agreed to have sex with him. 
[34] The same day, Mr. Ford also complained to her that she was taking too long with 
an administrative task.  She replied that sh e was not a secretary, and that she was not 
hired to do a secretary’s job.  Mr. Ford replie d that if she could not do the job and commit 
to two hours a day of work for him, someone else would be found who could. 
[35] Also on October 19, Ms. Burton visited the job site and spoke with Ms. Harrison.  
During her visit, Ms. Burton completed a Si te Hazard Assessment form (“SHA”), in 
which she noted various tasks to be comple ted by all workers present or by Con-Forte 
7 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
specifically.  Ms. Harrison explained at the h earing that an SHA would be completed two 
times a day if there was construction going on.  However, when the October 19 SHA was 
prepared, it was more in anticip ation of construction, noting the things that needed to be 
done. 
[36] Ms. Harrison and Ms. Burton also spoke about the absence of first aid equipment 
at the Lofts.  Ms. Burton was concerned a bout the lack of equipment, and Ms. Harrison 
noted that she had brought some of her own su pplies.  Some three weeks later, Navigator 
bought a large number of first ai d supplies for the Lofts.   
[37] When Mr. Nixon hired Ms. Harrison, she as ked him to provide a written outline 
of her job duties.  As she did not yet have  her own computer or email account, she 
received the “List of Site Safety Officer Responsibilities Lofts Project” from Mr. Nixon, 
via an email dated October 24 which was forwar ded to her through Mr. Ford.  The list of 
duties included daily, weekly and monthly tasks.  The last it em states that she was to 
assist Navigator, with any time left over from her safety work, in administrative tasks.   
[38] Ms. Harrison expected to discuss the li st with Mr. Nixon in more detail on 
November 10, 2005, as in his email he said he planned to be in Kelowna on that date to 
meet with Mr. Ford.  As noted earlier,  however, Mr. Nixon neve r visited the Lofts 
worksite. 
[39] On October 24, Ms. Harrison also received an employment lette r from Mr. Nixon.  
The letter included the following statements: 
We are happy to be able to offer you the position of Site Safety 
Advisor, effective October 18, 2005.  This position is a probationary position for a three-m onth introductory period after 
which time there will be a perf ormance evaluation and the position 
will become a full-time permanent position for the duration of the Navigator Development Corporati on’s Loft Project in Kelowna 
B.C.  The staring wage for this position will be $20.00 per hour. 
After your three-month probationary period, you will be eligible to participate in our benefit prog ram, which includes medical and 
dental coverage. 
This position is based on 8/hrs a day and 40/hrs a week.  Overtime 
hours must be approved ahead of time by both Nixon Safety 
8 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
Consulting Inc. and our client Navigator Development 
Corporation.  … 
[40] In a conversation they had shortly afte r Ms. Harrison received the letter, Mr. 
Nixon told Ms. Harrison that the Lofts project was expected to  last about two years, and 
that he anticipated that they  would have a long term worki ng relationship.  He also told 
her not to worry about the reference in the em ployment letter to the probationary period, 
as it was just standard cont ract language.  He also men tioned to Ms. Harrison that he 
would have to pre-approve overtime.  
[41] According to Ms. Harrison, initially, her wo rk day began at 7:30 a.m.  As part of 
her ancillary work for Navigator, Ms. Harrison says she was expected to take phone 
messages for Mr. Ford, check his computer  for messages, and deal with various 
contractors.   
[42] After about a week on the job, Ms. Harrison spoke to Mr. Ford about not taking 
either coffee breaks or lunch, so that she could leave early to attend to family matters.  She discussed leaving early w ith Mr. Ford because he was the only person available to 
discuss the matter with, and he said it was fi ne.  She recalled leaving early two or three 
times while working for NSC.  She noted that according to a WCB requirement, she 
could not leave the job site if there were any tradesmen present, as someone with the 
required safety training had to be present. 
[43] On November 2, Ms. Harrison noted in he r journal that a crane was moving what 
was to be the first aid trailer, and that an el ectrician was scheduled to connect power to it.  
The next day, she recorded that some first aid supplies had arrive d and that shelving 
needed to be installed in the first aid trailer.   
[44] On November 3, Ms. Harrison noted in her journal that more first aid supplies had 
arrived.  Ms. Harrison also noted that she was attempting, at Mr. Ford’s direction, to 
complete a required WCB registration.  She te stified that she eventually completed the 
registration for Navigator, with the assi stance of Mr. Westbrook, shortly before NSC 
terminated her employment. 
[45] On November 4, Ms. Harrison made th e following entry in her journal: 
9 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
4:00 p.m.  Talked w/ Rod [Goodm an] about Greg [Ford] this 
afternoon.  Rod feels that once site gets on track and active, I will 
be in site trailer and dealings w/ Greg will be minimal.  I trust that 
Rod is correct. 
[46] At the hearing, Ms. Harrison stated that  she spoke to Mr. Goodman on November 
4 because she was concerned about Mr. Ford propositioning her for sex.  She believed 
Mr. Ford was beginning to “dump” work on he r because she had refused his suggestions.  
In cross-examination, she stated that the not e in her journal does not  cover the full scope 
of the conversation, but that she told Mr. Goodman about the sexual harassment, and told 
him some of the details. 
[47] Ms. Harrison did not recall mentioning to  Mr. Goodman her a llegation that during 
working hours, Mr. Ford was accessing pornography on a computer in the office.  She testified that she did mention that Mr. Ford had touched and slapped her, and that he had 
offered to trade her some truck tires she needed  if she would have sex with him.  She also 
told Mr. Goodman she did not want to work  with Mr. Ford.  Sh e recalled that Mr. 
Goodman was concerned about what she told him,  and at first did not know what to do.  
He then told her she would have to have little or no contact with Mr. Ford once she moved to the first aid trailer. 
[48] Ms. Harrison went on to explain that the last  note in the journal entry, “I trust that 
Rod is correct”, was a reference to Mr. G oodman telling her that he thought that over 
time, once she and Mr. Ford worked in diffe rent locations, the situation would correct 
itself.   
[49] At the hearing, Mr. Curatolo confirmed that about two weeks after Ms. Harrison 
started at the Lofts, she asked him what he knew about Mr. Ford.  She told Mr. Curatolo 
that when she mentioned to Mr. Ford that she needed tires for her truck, Mr. Ford told her 
he would exchange tires for sexual favours.  Mr. Curatolo immediately told Ms. Harrison 
to tell Mr. Goodman what was goi ng on, in order to put a stop to it.  As noted previously, 
she spoke to Mr. Goodman on November 4, 2005.    
[50] According to Mr. Curatolo’s evidence, Ms. Harrison told hi m that Mr. Goodman 
said he was not surprised to hear the compla ints against Mr. Ford.  Mr. Goodman went on 
to suggest to Ms. Harrison th at the problem would take care  of itself once she moved into 
10 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
the first aid trailer, as she w ould not have to see or work with Mr. Ford.  Mr. Curatolo 
stated Ms. Harrison seemed satisfied with Mr . Goodman’s response, as was Mr. Curatolo. 
[51] Mr. Curatolo stated that Ms. Harrison al so complained to him about Mr. Ford 
making lewd comments in the workplace, and about his unwelcome touching.  For 
example, on one occasion, Mr. Ford put his hands on her shoulders and back, smacked 
her on her buttocks, and suggested that if they turned the blinds down, no one would be able see them.  She also mentioned to him that Mr. Ford asked he r to look at pornography 
on his computer while at work.  He would also talk in some detail about his sexual habits 
and his sexual relati ons with others.   
[52] After she was hired, Ms. Harrison forwarded her timesheets dire ctly to Mr. Nixon 
for approval.  However, in mid-November 2005, Mr. Ford began to review them.  Mr. 
Ford told Ms. Harrison that he did not want to see any overtime claims on the timesheets, 
and that he was going to insp ect everything she sent to Mr . Nixon.  He told her he was 
doing this because Navigator was paying NSC for her services.  As of November 24, Mr. Ford was signing her timesheets as “approved” .  In a follow-up c onversation, after Ms. 
Harrison submitted a time sheet to Mr. Nixon showing one hour of overtime, Mr. Nixon 
told Ms. Harrison that Navigator was not re sponsible for any overtime work she did, and 
that overtime had nothing to do with Mr. Ford.  Although  Ms. Harrison worked some 
overtime after this incident, she never claimed for it again. 
[53] On November 4, Ms. Harrison recorded in her journal that it could be some time 
before the first aid trailer phone line could be hooked up due to a strike.  She records that 
she told the phone company that a phone was n eeded for emergency first aid services.   
[54] On November 8, Ms. Harrison recorded that, at Mr. Ford’s direction, she had 
organized his receipts and bills for the pr eceding four months.  On November 9, Ms. 
Harrison recorded that she organized some of Con-Forte’s accounts.  She also indicates 
that she did some work for another project for “Marco”.  I take this to be a reference to 
Mr. DeDominicis. 
[55] Her next entry, for November 10, states “m ove files into trailer”.  On November 
18, she recorded that she cleaned the first aid room.  She also noted:   
11 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
Get a phone  to reach trailer   
… 
Checked on Conforte employees.  Dave is @ park place still!  Some are at 
Greg’s home.   
[56] On November 24, Ms. Harrison recorded that  Mr. Ford told her he did not want 
her to claim overtime.   
[57] On November 29, Ms. Harrison noted in her journal that she re nted a car for Mr. 
Westbrook.  She also recorded th at Ms. Burton visited the work  site to review what she 
had done to date, that Ms. Burt on was satisfied with her wor k, and that she expected to 
return in a month.   
[58] On December 7, Ms. Harrison indicated in  her journal that she faxed Mr. Nixon 
information about the CSO course she wanted to take, and noted that he was willing to 
pay for the courses.  She believed that Mr . Ford and Mr. Goodman both knew that she 
would be taking a leave of absence to attend the course, and that she was planning on 
attending the first se ssion in April 2006. 
[59] Ms. Harrison stated at the hearing that she called Mr. Nixon three times on 
December 8.  In addition to concerns about Mr. Ford, she also discussed what format her 
business cards should take, as this had become an issue for Mr. Ford and NSC.  The issue was whether her business card s hould indicate she was with Na vigator or with NSC.  It 
was Ms. Harrison’s evidence that Mr. Ford wa nted her to use a Navigator business card 
showing her as a CSO and Navigator employee.  Mr. Nixon told her not  to, but to use an 
NSC business card with her correct designation. 
[60] On December 8, Ms. Harrison made th e following entry in her journal: 
Talked w/ Jason [Nixon] regarding Greg Ford.  Explained to Jason 
the sexual harassment issues, Greg’s drug dealings ect. … 
Jason will keep me @ home tomorrow and will sort things out.  – 
Dave Westbrook is trying to reach Greg but cannot.  I had to get the […] steel contract signed by Tom and faxed back to Dave. 
[61] Ms. Harrison’s entire journal entry for Friday, December 9 is as follows: 
D e c  9         F r i d a y  
12 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
At home 
Greg Ford sent a threatening letter from his lawyer […] to my 
home  @ 5:30 pm 
[62] At the hearing, Ms. Harrison stated that th e lawyer’s letter made her scared and 
nervous.  She felt trapped.  The letter, dated December 9, is as follows: 
Please be advised that we represent Greg Ford 
It has come to our attention th at you have been making unfounded 
allegations calling into question Mr. Ford’s character and 
professionalism.  Accusations such as there are of extreme concern 
to us, given the detrimental and irreversible effects that they may have on our client’s personal and professional reputation.  The fact 
that these comments were made to persons in common employment with Mr. Ford is es pecially disconcerting.  Should you 
continue making slanderous and defamatory comments, we will immediately take legal action. 
Please accept this letter as a firs t and final warning to cease and 
desist from continuing on with th is dangerous conduct.  We also 
recommend that you refrain from any contact with Mr. Ford or 
person known to Mr. Ford: this situation, if aggravated, will only escalate from this point.   
Please govern yourself accordingly. 
[63] The relevant entries in Ms. Harrison’s journal for Monday, December 12, are as 
follows: 
Talked to Rod about moving all files out of office.  Also talked w/ 
him about a copier, fax ect.  … he  said that he would have no 
problem  getting all of those things for the office.  Talked to Jason, 
he will send me a phone, computer + business cards ASAP!   
… 
Removed all computer files for me off Gregs computer.  
[Reproduced as written] 
[64] At the hearing, Ms. Harrison explained how it came about that Mr. Ford’s use of 
the internet became an issue.  She noted th at prior to December 8, Mr. Ford complained 
that his laptop computer was r unning slowly.  He asked Ms. Harrison to see if she could 
find out what the problem was.  Ms. Harrison spoke to Cory Krebs, a freelance computer 
13 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
technician about the problem, and he sugge sted running a program on the computer that 
would scan for problems.  Afte r Mr. Krebs ran the program, he  printed a report listing a 
large number of pornographic websites that had been accessed on the laptop.  Mr. Krebs 
told her that these types of websites can result in a computer running slowly. 
[65] At the hearing, Mr. Krebs testified that he is a computer consulta nt and technician.  
He confirmed that he attended the site offi ce for the Lofts on three occasions, the first 
two times at Ms. Harrison’s request.  On October 10, 2005, he worked on a laptop 
computer in the office.  On the second vis it, on or about December 8, 2005, he cleaned up 
the computer’s operating syst em, removed some “spy-ware”, and erased some “bugs”.  
He also helped Ms. Harrison print a report of  the names of some websites that he said 
were causing problems with the computer.   
[66] Included in the report were numerous por nographic websites, with some of the 
addresses appearing repeatedly.  Mr. Krebs stated at the hearing that accessing these 
types of websites can cause computer performance problems.  Mr. Krebs confirmed that the report did not indicate the date or time at  which the websites were accessed.  As well, 
the report does not indicate how long a site was accessed.  Mr. Krebs confirmed that he 
did not submit an invoice to Navigator for this  work, but did for some additional work in 
January 2006, after Ms. Harrison was fired. 
[67] Returning to Ms. Harrison’s evidence, she stated that on December 8, she had 
three telephone conversations with Mr. Nixon.  One of the calls last ed about 45 minutes, 
and concerned, in part, Ms. Harrison’s compla ints about Mr. Ford.  It took place while 
Ms. Harrison was in a graphic design shop de aling with the printi ng of some business 
cards.  Ms. Harrison talked to Mr. Nixon a bout the sexual harassment allegations, and 
also discussed with him why Mr. Ford was signing her time shee ts, and why Mr. Ford 
wanted her to obtain business cards s howing Navigator as her employer.   
[68] During the conversation, Ms. Harrison told Mr. Nixon what had been going on 
with Mr. Ford, and that he had been touc hing and propositioning her.  When Mr. Nixon 
asked why she had not let him know sooner, she told him about her November 4 conversation with Mr. Goodman, and that she had believed that th e problem would go 
away.  She also told Mr. Nixon about the printo ut from Mr. Ford’s co mputer.  At the end 
14 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
of the conversation, Mr. Nixon asked her to send him an email about what had been 
occurring, as he needed something in writi ng.  She believed he was going to give the 
email to Mr. Marco and Mr. Westbrook, and kn ew that Mr. Ford w ould get a copy.  Mr. 
Nixon told her that there was no way this sort of thing would be tolerated.  He also told 
her not to go into work the next day, and th at he would call her.  Ms. Harrison noted at 
the hearing that, although she had never met Mr. Nixon in person, she found herself 
crying during the conversation. 
[69] At the hearing, Ms. Harrison stated th at her December 8, 2005 email to Mr. 
Nixon, complaining about Mr. Ford, is accurate .  Although the email is addressed to Mr 
Nixon, he is referred to in the third person.  What follows is a synopsis of the email. 
• Throughout her employment at the Lofts,  Ms. Harrison was disturbed by Mr. 
Ford’s conduct. 
• When she began working, Mr. Ford told her she worked for him, and that she 
had to commit to at least two hours a day of secretarial support for him.  
When she responded that her duties for NS C came first, he responded that he 
would find someone else if she found hi s request problematic.  As a result of 
his demands, she began to do as he asked, contacting trades, getting quotes 
and bids, completing expense reports,  making personal calls and booking 
appointments for him. 
• Mr. Ford became sexually aggressive to wards Ms. Harrison, suggesting that 
any sexual relations they might have  could be kept confidential.   
• Sometimes when Mr. Ford came into the office, he smelled of marijuana.  
Ms. Harrison said that once while in a vehicle together while running an errand, Mr. Ford smoked marijuana and offered her some.   
• Mr. Ford would spend extensive time pe riods away from the work site, often 
in the company of a friend.  Mr. Ford and the friend had both been in a drug rehabilitation program prior to Mr. Fo rd and Ms. Harrison working together. 
• Mr. Ford regularly made sexually load ed comments to Ms. Harrison, to the 
extent that she raised the matter with  Mr. Goodman.  Ms. Harrison says Mr. 
Goodman told her that once she moved into  a safety trailer on site she would 
no longer be in close contact with him. 
• Ms. Harrison was reluctant to tell Mr . Nixon about her problems with Mr. 
Ford, as Mr. Ford always told her she worked for him, and that he had the 
power to fire her.  Due to family responsibilities and debt problems, Ms. 
Harrison could not risk losing her job.  It would be her word against Mr. 
15 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
Ford’s if there was a dispute.  She also stated that she was intimidated by the 
fact that Mr. Ford bragged that he  knew the owner of the project.  
• Ms. Harrison alleges that a week before she wrote the email, Mr. Ford offered 
to trade tires for her truck for sexual favours. 
• Ms. Harrison found out that Mr. Ford was frequenting pornographic websites 
on a computer she believed was owned by Navigator.  When she confronted 
Mr. Ford and Mr. Goodman about what she had found, Mr. Goodman seemed 
uncomfortable, while Mr. Ford seemed  pleased, noting that his computer 
would work better, but that “a guy has to get off somehow.”  
• After noting some other concerns, Ms. Ha rrison ends her email by stating that 
she trusts Mr. Nixon and Con-Forte will do their best to help her with the problem and will provide her with security in the days following. 
[70] Ms. Harrison testified that, on December 9, Mr. Nixon told her to move into the 
safety trailer, although in her opinion, it was not yet ready for use.  It had no computer, 
printer or phone, and was not properly set up for first aid use.  She denied being 
previously told by Mr. Ford or Mr. Good man to move to the safety trailer. 
[71] Mr. Curatolo testified that he recalled speaking to Mr. Goodman shortly after Ms. 
Harrison complained to Mr. Nixon about sexual harassment.  Mr. Goodman told him that 
things would have smoothed over if she had just waited until she was in her own trailer 
on the site.  She and Mr. Ford would not have to see each other anymore, and that would 
have been the end of the problem. 
[72] Again, on December 9, Mr. Nixon told Ms. Ha rrison that the situation was being 
dealt with, but that while Mr. Ford ha d admitted to watching pornography on his 
computer, he denied harassing her or maki ng inappropriate comments.  Mr. Nixon went 
on to say that she should not worry about he r job, in that it was Mr. Ford whose position 
was in jeopardy.   
[73] Ms. Harrison reported to work on  the following Monday, December 12, as 
instructed by Mr. Nixon, and was told to go to the first aid trailer.  The plan was for her 
to move immediately into the trailer Mr. Wiens,  a site superintendent , was already using.  
Mr. Nixon also discussed with her whether she wanted to ma ke a police complaint about 
what had happened, but her preference wa s to continue on with her work.  
16 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[74] As recorded in her journal, on December 12, Ms. Harrison removed all her 
personal information from Mr. Ford’s laptop, including the December 8 email to Mr. 
Nixon. 
[75] On December 15, Ms. Harrison made the following entry in her journal: 
I was written up for being late “the  other day”.  I was not late and 
Jason said that “somebody” claimed that I was.  Jason sent me a 
xmas bonus of $250.00 which was lovely.  Kathy [Burton] will send in a report to Jason [Nixon] w/ my concerns. 
[76] The warning note referred to was an “Employee Write Up Form” completed by 
Mr. Nixon.  It was in an enve lope delivered to her in pe rson by Ms. Burton, along with 
Ms. Harrison’s pay and the Ch ristmas bonus.  It states: 
It was brought to our at tention that on Dec 12/13 you were late for work.  
This has caused our client to complai n. You must report to work at the 
time designated by the clients site supervisor in the future.   
[77] Ms. Harrison called Mr. Nixon about the note,  to tell him she had not been late.  
He told her to be careful, as  she would be watched more cl osely now by Navigator, and 
that they were looking for mistakes.  He also said that in future she should report to Mr. 
Wiens.   
[78] At the hearing, Ms. Harrison confirmed that  this was the first warning, verbal or 
written, that she had received about  her employment at the Lofts. 
[79] On December 20, Ms. Harrison received a letter from Mr. Nixon, notifying her 
that, as of January 1, her services were no longer needed.  The lett er states, in part: 
We are writing to inform you that as of January 1, 2006 we will no longer require your services on ‘The Lofts Pr oject’.  Over the past few weeks it 
has become apparent that you are not fitting in to the role that we need on the “Lofts Project” and upon review with our client Navigator 
Development it is clear that you are not  meeting the requirements of the 
site safety adviser position on the project.  As we made it clear to you when you were hired for the project this was a probationary position until 
January 18, 2006 and that we reserv ed the right to terminate this 
agreement any time during that three-month period, we fell that it has become apparent that this situation is  not working out and that it would not 
be fair to you or our client to prolong your employment. 
… 
17 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[80] Mr. Nixon sent the letter to Ms. Harrison by fax.  On the cover page of the fax is 
the following handwritten note: 
Will, please deliver to Kori 
Thx, 
Greg 
As I understand this entry, Mr. Ford received the fax in the site office, and in turn 
instructed Mr. Wiens to deliver it to Ms. Harrison. 
[81] After she received th e letter, Ms. Harrison was stunne d and upset.  She called Mr. 
Nixon, who she says told her re peatedly that it was not his decision to let her go, as he 
was happy with the job she had done.  Ms. Harrison testified that Mr. Nixon told her 
Navigator wanted her out.  He also told her that it was unfortunate that he did not have 
another construction s ite to send her to. 
[82]  Ms. Harrison finished the day’s work, packed her things, and let Mr. Wiens know 
how the filing system worked.  Among other things, she left th e safety stickers she gave 
to workers once they had completed their safety training. 
[83] According to Mr. Curatolo’s evidence, Ms. Harrison called him soon after she got 
the termination letter from Mr. Nixon.  Mr . Curatolo immediatel y called Mr. Goodman, 
to find out what had happened, but Mr. Good man said he did not know anything about 
the termination.  Mr. Curatolo asked Mr. Goodm an to call Ms. Harri son, to let her know 
what was going on.  Despite his request,  Mr. Goodman never talked to her. 
[84] Mr. Curatolo confirmed that he did not talk to Mr. Goodman again about Ms. 
Harrison until the summer of 2006.   
[85] In cross-examination, Ms. Harrison stated that neither Mr. G oodman nor Mr. Ford 
told her to move to the first aid trailer prio r to December 12, and that the trailer was still 
not set up properly when she moved.   
[86] Ms. Harrison was asked to review para graph 24 of section E of her complaint 
form, in which she stated:   
18 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
When the Complainant smelled marijuana on Ford when he arrived at 
work, he explained that he had bought a deodorant spray and that she would never smell it … 
[87] Ms. Harrison stated that she smelled mar ijuana on Mr. Ford on the second day of 
work, October 19, 2005.  She went on to say that she noticed the smell a couple of times 
a week after that, and that she also smelled it on him when she went with him to purchase 
a cell phone at a local mall.  She believed th at the trip occurred sometime between the 
middle and end of November, but could not be sure.  She confirmed that she never 
recorded Mr. Ford’s use of marijuana in he r journal, and could not confirm that she 
noticed it only during working hours. 
[88] Ms. Harrison was asked to review para graph 25 of section E of her complaint 
form, in which she stated: 
Ford further advised that everyone had to have a vice and sex was his vice 
of choice, and further that if the Comp lainant ever wanted to make a better 
wage or climb the corporate ladder th en he could make that happen in 
return for sexual favours. 
[89] Ms. Harrison stated that Mr. Ford ma de these comments on October 18, 2005, and 
repeated them on three or four other occasions , but she could not recall the exact dates.   
[90] Ms. Harrison was asked to review para graph 26 of section E of her complaint 
form, in which she quotes Mr. Ford as bragging that he was an amazing lover, and that he 
needed more than one woman.  According to her, he went on to br ag about having sex 
with various women.  Ms. Harrison could not recall with any degree of certainty when 
these comments were made, but thought it was during the first week she worked.  
[91] In response to the comments made by Mr. Ford, Ms. Harrison testified that she 
told him, during her second week at the Lofts, that she was there to do her work.  She 
repeated this comment to him on several occasions.   
[92] Ms. Harrison confirmed that, as per her co mplaint form, Mr. Ford told her that 
“he wanted her to look sexy at work and told  her to wear skirts.”  Although she did not 
record the comment in her journal, she believed he first made the comment in the third or fourth week of her employment. 
19 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[93]  Ms. Harrison confirmed the statement in  her complaint form, that as of the 
second week of employment, she feared losing  her job, because Mr. Ford held a position 
of power over her.  She also recalled warn ing him about sexually transmitted diseases, 
starting in about the third week of her em ployment.  She again confirmed that she 
recorded none of this information in her work journal. 
[94] Ms. Harrison stated that she told Mr. Ford to stop making his comments in the 
second week of work, and that his comments were such by the second week of work that 
she often went home and cried.  Ms. Harrison said that she believed Mr. Ford enjoyed 
seeing her angry and upset about the comments he made to her. 
[95] Ms. Harrison stated that she became aware that Mr. Ford was looking at 
pornography on his computer while at work wh en he asked her to look at pornography on 
the computer during the second or  third week of work.  She did not know what to say, but 
tried to go on with her work.  Ms. Harrison was disgusted that Mr. Ford was watching 
this sort of material while she was in the office with him.  She recalled that, on each 
occasion, Mr. Ford stated that “a gu y has to get off somehow”.     
[96] Mr. Ford repeated the same comment wh en Ms. Harrison and Mr. Krebs ran the 
internet history report on about December 8.  After the December 8 comment, Mr. 
Goodman jokingly asked Mr. Ford when he had time to work. 
[97] Returning to job site issues, when he hi red her, Mr. Nixon told Ms. Harrison that 
construction was to start soon, but it turned ou t that there were dela ys.  Ms. Harrison was 
not concerned about the delay, as it gave her time to do her prep aratory work for the site.   
[98] Ms. Harrison understood that it was necessary to have a first aid attendant on site; 
otherwise no work could take place.  She understood that work star ted at 7:30 a.m., and 
that sometimes she would have to stay l onger than the standard eight hour shift. 
[99] Ms. Harrison agreed that she wanted to  become a CSO, and that to do so, she 
needed to work at least one year in the c onstruction industry.  It was not necessary that 
she work under a CSO during that year.  Ms. Harrison knew Ms. Burton was a CSO, but 
she did not consider herself as working side by side with Ms. Burton, as Ms. Burton was to be on the job site about once a month.   
20 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[100]  Ms. Harrison was uncertain as to whethe r Mr. Nixon told her during her interview 
that she would be subject to  a three month probationary pe riod.  She agreed that a 
probationary period was a standard  practice, and that she could be let go if she did not do 
her job.  She did not disput e the fact that the October 24, 2005 letter of employment 
referred to a probationary period. 
[101]  Ms. Harrison confirmed that, after she was hired, Mr. Nixon told her that part of 
her job would be setting up a safety program for Navigator, that NSC would provide the 
details of the plan, and that it was her job to enforce it.  Her work also included enforcing 
the occupational health and safety rules, an d providing safety orientation for all workers 
on site.   
[102]  Ms. Harrison denied that in carrying out her duties she had ev er been flirtatious 
with the workers on the job site.  She agreed that she had been friendly.   
[103]  Ms. Harrison denied the suggestion that on one occasion she had lifted her top 
during a conversation with Mr. Goodman about p hotos of women in a calendar.  She also 
denied dressing in a revealing manner when c onducting site orientation meetings with the 
workers. 
[104]  Ms. Harrison confirmed that the list of  job duties she received from Mr. Nixon 
referred to tasks that needed  to be done on a daily, weekly  and monthly basis.  Ms. 
Harrison was of the view that the monthly dut ies did not necessarily have to be done by a 
CSO, but could be done by a person with the necessary experience.  She felt her monthly 
reports would have been corrected  if she had done anything wrong.   
[105]  The safety plan which Mr. Nixon sent to Ms. Harrison was designed for an 
Alberta project, and he to ld her to update it for the Lofts.  After she finished the changes 
to the safety plan, she posted copies in th e site lunchroom and in the site office.   
[106]  Ms. Harrison confirmed that part of her job was to keep track of the contractors 
and workers who received the si te orientation.  Ensuring that contractors had gone 
through the orientation was an important issu e in regard to any liability for onsite 
injuries.  She understood that it was important, for liability purposes, that NSC have its name on the safety documentation.  When  new workers came on site, it was Ms. 
21 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
Harrison’s job to tell the workers about the sa fety plan and tell them where copies could 
be found if they wanted to refer to them.   
[107]  Ms. Harrison understood that Mr. Nixon was to bring her a cell phone when he 
came to the work site on November 11.  In the meantime, Ms. Harrison was using her 
own cell phone for work related purposes, but was not reimbursed for the expense.  It was only after she complained to Mr . Nixon about Mr. Ford that Mr. Nixon offered to pay her 
cell phone expenses.   
[108]  Ms. Harrison confirmed that on October 24 she also discusse d with Mr. Nixon 
setting up an email account for her.  After it was set up, Ms. Harrison accessed it through 
Mr. Ford’s computer.  Ms. Harr ison testified that at first she assumed the laptop computer 
being used by Mr. Ford was owned by Navigato r, as it was used by him and her for work 
purposes, and was sometimes left in the office overnight. 
[109]  Ms. Harrison assumed that others using the office would be able to access her 
journal, as she left it at work.  She stated  she did not make all the entries for a day 
chronologically.  She recorded what she did in a day, but not necessarily in the order set out.   
[110]  Ms. Harrison was referred to a “Project  Hazard Assessment Form” (“PHAF”) she 
completed on October 28, 2005.  It was on Con- Forte letterhead.  She used the form 
because Mr. Goodman gave it to her, and in  her mind, Navigator and Con-Forte were the 
same companies, owned by the same person, using the same forms.  Sometime after 
October 24, when Ms. Harriso n asked Mr. Nixon about usi ng a PHAF from Con-Forte, 
he stated that she should use whatever form s were in the office, even though four days 
earlier he said the documenta tion should have NSC’s name on it.  On the November 4 
and 10 PHAFs, Ms. Harrison also indica ted that the primary contractor was 
“Navigator/Con-Forte”.  In PHAFs completed on December 19 and 21, Ms. Harrison also 
noted that the prime contractor on site was “Navigator/Con-Forte”. 
[111]  Ms. Harrison stated she was never spoken to about the “proper” use of forms on 
site.  She stated that Mr. Goodman told he r to use the Con-Fort e form, and that Mr. 
Nixon had told her to use whatever form was at hand.  She was never spoken to about the 
22 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
proper designation of the prime contractor, or the letterhead to be used on safety 
documentation. 
[112]  During her evidence, Ms. Harrison was questioned about her manner of dress 
while at work.  She stated she always wore jeans, a t-shirt or shirt,  a hoodie, a jean or 
winter jacket, and a safety vest .  She wore steel-toed safety boots at all time s, and a hard 
hat when not in the office.  No one ever to ld her that her manner of dress at work was 
inappropriate.  She did not know if anyone me ntioned her manner of dress to Mr. Nixon. 
[113]  Ms. Harrison stated that she had an  argument with Mr. Ford on December 7, 
concerning a number of issues.  They argued about what her busine ss cards should say, 
and she again complained to him about him harassing her. 
[114]  Ms. Harrison stated that on December 8 she went to proof business cards that 
were to be printed for her.  On Mr. Ford’s in structions, the cards were  to indicate that she 
worked for Navigator at the Lofts as a CSO.  She testified that she did so at Mr. Ford’s 
direction, as he thought  it would be good advertising for Na vigator, given it was the first 
project the company had had in Kelowna. 
[115]  Ms. Harrison agreed that one of the sa fety documents displayed at the Lofts 
describes her as a “Site Safety Officer” and gives her personal cell number.   
[116]  Ms. Harrison took the position that she could not move from the site office to the 
first aid trailer for some time after she star ted.  Through mid-November, it could not be 
used because another trailer had to be moved.   As of November 1, there was no phone, 
power or fax in the trailer.  It needed to be cleaned out and an office had to be set up.  
When she moved into the trailer after Decem ber 8, there were no filing cabinets, nor had 
a phone or computer been installed.  
[117]  Ms. Harrison rejected several suggesti ons put to her by Mr. Ford in crossexamination.  She denied that she did not do th e amount or type of work for him that she 
alleged or that he had asked her to dress more appropriately for the workplace, and not to  wear tight jeans.  While Ms. Harrison agreed  that Mr. Ford would have overheard some 
of her conversations with Mr. Curatolo, sh e testified that she had not mocked Mr. 
Curatolo in front of Mr. Ford  and Mr. Goodman.  She agreed that Mr. Ford answered the 
23 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
phone once when Mr. Curatolo called, but stated  that he did not call her at work again 
after that.  
[118]  Ms. Harrison denied that she became angr y with Mr. Ford when he refused her 
permission to get business cards that said sh e was working for Navigator and was a CSO.  
It was Ms. Harrison’s position that it was Mr. Ford who told her to put that information 
on her business cards, as he believed  it was good publicity for the company.  
[119]  Ms. Harrison denied that while employed by NSC, she told Mr. Ford’s wife that 
she used her sexuality to manipulate men. 
[120]  Ms. Harrison denied that she flirted with men on the job site, or  that she had told 
Mr. Ford on one occasion that she had been  a “bad girl” and needed a spanking.  She 
denied telling Mr. Ford that she had once work ed as a stripper in a Kelowna bar.  She 
also denied that she became angry when he asked her why she was putting up personal 
photos in the office when her stay there was temporary.  Ms. Harrison maintained that she was never asked to leave the office until  she made the complaint to Mr. Nixon about 
Mr. Ford’s behaviour, at which time Mr. Nixon told her to move to the first aid trailer. 
[121]  Finally, Ms. Harrison denied that she file d her human rights complaint in order to 
get revenge on Mr. Ford and enrich herself. 
[122]  The last evidence to review in this secti on is Mr. Campbell’s (given by conference 
call).  Mr. Campbell stated he was hired by NSC in January 2 006 to work as a CSO at the 
Lofts.  He worked in that capacity until late April or early May 2006.  When he started working, he was told there had been a safety pe rson on site earlier, but  that she was let go 
because of a dispute.   
[123]  Mr. Campbell, who knew Ms. Harrison prior to  working at the Lofts, spoke to her 
once he began working.  Mr. Goodman and Mr. Ford had told him they believed she had 
taken some items missing from the work site, including safety stickers and manuals.  Mr. 
Goodman asked Mr. Campbell to contact Ms. Harrison and ask her to return the items.  
Mr. Ford also wanted Mr. Campbell to speak to Ms. Harrison in an effort to get information to help him defend against her human rights complaint.  When Mr. Campbell 
called Ms. Harrison, she denied that she had removed items from the office.  Mr. 
24 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
Campbell noted that some of the material s Ms. Harrison was accused of taking were 
found in the site offi ce soon after the call. 
[124]  Mr. Campbell was not happy with aspects of his work at the Lofts, and gave 
notice that he was going to quit at least twi ce: once because his pay was late and another 
time because Mr. Westbrook wanted him to do labourer’s work.  Mr. Campbell stated 
that NSC still owed him $3,700, and that he  believed that NSC owed money to Ms. 
Burton and others.   
[125]  Finally, Mr. Campbell testified that, fr om his knowledge of Ms. Harrison, it did 
not make sense that she would ‘go to court’ without reason. 
B. Ms. Harrison’s Evidence on Mitigation 
[126]  At the hearing, Ms. Harrison filed a letter dated April 14, 2007, from a 
construction company, in which its foreman c onfirms that he offered Ms. Harrison a job 
as a safety officer in Oct ober 2005, but that she could not take it as she was already 
employed. 
[127]  Ms. Harrison testifie d that, in January 2006, Mr. Nixon contacted her to find out if 
she was interested in working at another wo rk site for another project.  Ms. Harrison 
declined the position, and did not discuss an y details of the proposed work with Mr. 
Nixon. 
[128]  After leaving the Lofts, Ms.  Harrison took some part-t ime work at a gym over the 
Christmas holidays, and worked there through January and February 2006.  She had also 
worked as a waitress, and was working as a waitress on a part-time basis at the time of 
the hearing.   
[129]  On February 6, 2006, Ms. Harrison submitte d an application for Unemployment 
Benefits through EI.  In the form, she was asked to describe the final incident of 
misconduct that resulted in her di smissal.  In reply, she stated: 
While in employment for Nixon Safety  I made a complaint that I was 
being sexually harassed at work.  1 w eek later I was fired because I was 
easier to get rid of then the person I made the complaint against.  
[Reproduced as written] 
25 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[130]  Initially, Ms. Harrison did not try to get employment in the construction industry 
because she was registered for school to re do her first aid ticket which was about to 
expire.  She received her CSO designation in  the summer of 2006.  She applied for work 
as a CSO, and obtained a job with another company in October 2006.   
[131]  Ms. Harrison obtained the followi ng safety-related training: 
• March 21 2006: Claims and Disabili ty Management certificate;  
• April 4, 2006: Safety Audit certificate; 
• May 5, 2006: Trades Safety Coordinator certificate; and 
• June 15, 2006: Construction Sa fety Officer certificate. 
Ms. Harrison also took several fi rst aid courses.  Ms. Harrison filed receipts related to the 
safety courses she took. 
7. The Respondents’ Evidence 
A. Evidence of Greg Ford 
[132]  Mr. Ford, who had a long history in th e construction industry, was hired by 
Navigator to supervise constr uction of the Lofts.  He wa s supervised by Mr. Westbrook.  
Mr. Ford’s duties included liaison with the various trades, suppliers and architects on site.  
When he began working for Navigator in July 2005, construction had not yet started.   
[133]  Although Mr. Ford started work for Navigator on the Lofts project in July 2005, 
he did not sign his written contract with Navigator until February 29, 2006.  The contract as filed at the hearing was never executed by  a Navigator representative.  From July 
2005, Mr. Ford’s sole source of income was from  Navigator.  Mr. Ford stated that he 
continued working at the Lofts until close to the project’s completion.  He stopped 
working, by mutual agreement, when he need ed to take off time from work due to a 
serious injury. 
[134]  Mr. Ford recalled that Ms. Harrison began working on site on October 18, 2005.  
She was hired by NSC to provide certified safety services for the site operations. 
26 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[135]  Initially, when Ms. Harrison started working, the atmosphere was friendly.  
However, in his view, it soon became overly-friendly.  For example, Mr. Ford said that 
Ms. Harrison would talk incessantly about pers onal issues.  At the same time, he agreed 
that she was very helpful in the o ffice, or at least appeared to be. 
[136]  Shortly after starting wor k, Ms. Harrison bought jour nals for herself, Mr. 
Goodman and Mr. Ford to use during the Lofts project.  Mr. Ford st ated that, while he 
had used the journal, he had not been  able to locate it for the hearing. 
[137]  In cross-examination, Mr. Ford agreed that  Ms. Harrison helped him with some of 
his office work, as per the li st of job duties given to he r by NSC.  However, he 
maintained that while she did her work enthus iastically, he could have done the work in 
less time.  Mr. Ford denied telling Ms. Harrison  that she had to work a specific number of 
hours per day for him.  She only worked for him on a volunteer basis.  He stated that over time, he became intolerant of her assistance, as she talked incessantly. 
[138]  Mr. Ford stated that, while at work, Ms.  Harrison had a habit of playing voice 
messages from her boyfriend, Mr. Curatolo, and that she would comment, in a selfsatisfied and deprecating manner, that he sounded pathetic.  She would ask Mr. Ford 
what he thought she should do in regard to Mr. Curatolo.  Ms. Harrison played the 
messages five or six times, until he told he r to stop.  She also played highly personal 
voice-messages left by her father.  In Mr. Ford’s opinion, the voice messages indicated 
that Ms. Harrison was a highly manipulative person. 
[139]  On another occasion, Mr. Ford alleged that Ms. Harrison danced around the office 
“like a stripper” and told him that she had once worked as one in a Kelowna bar.  He believed this incident took place sometime in mid to late November. 
[140]  Mr. Ford’s evidence as to whether he  knew about Ms. Harrison’s November 4 
complaint to Mr. Goodman was unclear.  He indicated that Mr. Goodman told him about her complaint, but that Mr. Ford thought it was ri diculous.  He then st ated that he recalled 
Mr. Goodman telling him about a complaint from Ms. Harrison, that Mr. Ford had 
allegedly suggested he buy her lingerie while th ey were at a mall.  He heard nothing more 
about the November 4 complaint. 
27 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[141]  Mr. Ford went on to say that the first ai d trailer was ready for Ms. Harrison’s use 
as of November 4.  He stated that power had been hooked up, but he could not recall if 
the office had a desk.  He agreed that no phone was installed, but said that she could have 
used a portable phone.   
[142]  Mr. Ford maintained in cross-examinati on that he began as king Ms. Harrison to 
move out of the site office as of November 4.  Rather than stating that she would not 
move, Ms. Harrison simply continued to work out of the site office.  He called Mr. 
Westbrook about wanting her to move on seve ral occasions, but became more adamant 
on December 8 after their confrontation about the business cards.  However, he 
confirmed that he never sent anyone an ema il, or another type of communication, on the 
subject. 
[143]  Mr. Ford alleged that, on about Nove mber 15, Ms. Harrison, after dropping 
something on the floor of the office, said in  a “baby’s voice” that she had been a “bad 
girl”, and needed a spanking.  She first went  to Mr. Goodman’s desk, inviting him to hit 
her on the buttocks, and when he refused, she went to Mr. Ford’s desk.  Mr. Ford stated that he felt uncomfortable, but swatte d her away with the back of his hand. 
[144]  Mr. Ford testified that on December 1 or 2, Ms. Harrison came into the office, 
complaining of a back injury, saying how sore she was.  Mr. Ford told Ms. Harrison that 
she ought to make an appointment with his wife, who was a chiropractor.  She agreed, 
and Mr. Ford made an appointment for her on about December 5.  After the appointment, 
Mr. Ford’s wife complained to him about Ms.  Harrison wearing extremely tight clothing 
and using foul language while in her office. 
[145]  Mr. Ford also recalled that, while at work, Ms. Harrison repeatedly asked for a 
cell phone, but that he told he r it was not his job to get her a phone, and that it was NSC’s 
responsibility. 
[146]  On December 6, Mr. Ford met with Ms. Harrison in the office, telling her that she 
should wear clothes more appropriate for the work site.  The tight low-cut jeans she was 
wearing were not appropriate.  Mr. Ford te stified that Ms. Harrison became very upset 
about what he was saying. 
28 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[147]  In his evidence, Mr. Ford next went on to describe the controversy around what 
Ms. Harrison’s business cards would state.  Prior to December 8, Ms.  Harrison said she 
wanted cards that showed her as an employee of Navigator.  Mr. Fo rd says he  told her 
she would have to speak to Mr. Nixon about th is, as she worked for NSC.  On December 
8, Mr. Ford confirmed that she could not use Navigator’s name on he r cards, and that she 
could not misrepresent herself as being a CSO. 
[148]  Later the same day, after Mr. Ford and Mr . Goodman returned to the office from a 
meeting at another work-site, Ms. Harrison “p roudly” presented them with a printout of 
the websites Mr. Ford had accessed on his computer .  Later in his eviden ce, he stated that 
she was more smug about the in cident than anything else.  Mr. Ford did not think much 
of the issue at the time, as it was his person al computer, and how he used it was up to 
him.  He confirmed that he accessed pornogr aphy on his computer while at work, for a 
few minutes a day.  In any event, he maintain ed that he never aske d Ms. Harrison to fix 
his computer. 
[149]  Mr. Ford stated at the hearing that wh ile he “surfed porn” while at work, Ms. 
Harrison never looked at the websites with him.   He also stated that he was not present 
when Ms. Harrison was alleged by Mr. Goodman to have lifted her top. 
[150]  When Mr. Ford came to work on December 9, he was confronted by Mr. 
Goodman, who asked him what he had done, as there was a big problem with him and 
Ms. Harrison, in that she ha d made a sexual harassment comp laint against him.  Again, 
Mr. Ford said he did not think much of the problem at the time, aside from being irritated with, and increasingly into lerant of, Ms. Harrison. 
[151]  Mr. Ford stated that, after Ms. Harrison made her December 8 complaint, Mr. 
Westbrook contacted him on December 9, to ask him what was going on.  Mr. Ford 
stated he told him the accusations were craz y.  Mr. Westbrook told him to have no further 
contact with Ms. Harrison.  Mr . Ford said that Mr. Westbr ook told him that Ms. Harrison 
was satisfied with the arrangement that she woul d move to the first aid trailer and that he 
would not have contact with her. 
[152]  When asked in cross-examination if Mr. Westbrook wanted to know his version 
of events, Mr. Ford replied “not really”.  Mr . Ford also said he spoke to Mr. Nixon about 
29 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
the accusations, and denied th at anything untoward had ha ppened.  He did not see the 
December 8 email from Ms. Harrison to Mr. Nixon until shortly before the start of the 
hearing.  He stated that he was never told an  email had been sent, but was just told about 
the allegations Ms. Harrison wa s making.  In Mr. Ford’s view, Ms. Harrison’s December 
8 email to Mr. Nixon was an example of her build ing a case against him.  Mr. Ford stated 
he played no further active role in an y investigation about her complaint.   
[153]  Mr. Ford stated that when he noticed that Ms. Harrison had claimed an hour of 
overtime, he contacted Mr. Westbrook.  He did so  because he did not think it was fair that 
Navigator be charged for overtime that was not worked.  Mr. Westbrook told him that 
there should be no overtime charges agai nst Navigator as NS C was on a fixed-sum 
contract.  He agreed that he should not ha ve said anything to Ms. Harrison about the 
overtime claim, as it was not a concern for Navigator but for NSC. 
[154]  Mr. Ford stated that several of the h azard assessment forms (PHAFs) completed 
by Ms. Harrison were incorrect.  They should not have been done on Con-Forte 
letterhead, and should have shown only Navigato r as the prime contractor.  He was less 
certain as to what the signif icance of these errors was. 
[155]  Mr. Ford confirmed that an ad placed in a Kelowna newspaper, on December 12, 
2005, for labourers and carpenters for the Lofts, gave Ms. Harrison and Mr. Goodman as 
contacts.  The ad does not mention either Navigator or Con-Forte.   
[156]  Mr. Ford was referred to the “Employ ee Write Up Form” given to Ms. Harrison 
by Mr. Nixon on about December 13, reprimandi ng her for being late for work.  He 
stated he had never seen the form before th e hearing, and had nothing  to do with it being 
issued to Ms. Harrison, and had not complained to NSC.   
[157]  Mr. Ford agreed that there was sexual banter going on in the office, but took the 
position that Ms. Harrison invited it.  In th e end, Mr. Ford said that he felt sexually 
harassed by Ms. Harrison.   
[158]  Mr. Ford stated that, before Ms. Harrison left the Lofts, he was not aware of any 
policy in place in regard to sexual harassment, nor did he receive any orientation in 
regard to it.  After she left, policies we re put in place by Con-Forte and Navigator. 
30 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[159]  In cross-examination, Mr. Ford confirmed that there were delays in getting the 
Lofts started, due to problems getting necessary  warranty coverage for it.  There were 
also delays caused by problems getting a build ing permit.  The permit was finally issued 
on December 19, 2005. 
[160]  Mr. Ford stated that he played no active role in Ms.  Harrison being fired.  He 
believed she was let go because she was late for work and was not willing to do certain 
aspects of her job.  However, he could not say what it was that she was not doing.  He 
never sent an email to Mr. Westbrook compla ining about her performance, nor did he 
complain to Mr. Westbrook or Mr. Nixon about he r attire.  Mr. Ford said he complained 
only to Mr. Goodman about the situation, a nd also talked to Mr. Westbrook about Ms. 
Harrison wanting Navigator business cards. 
B. Evidence of Navigator and Con-Forte 
1. Rod Goodman 
[161]  In September 2005, Mr. Goodman was sp eaking to Mr. Curatolo, a long time 
friend, when Mr. Curatolo mentioned that his girlfriend, Ms. Ha rrison, was looking for 
work in construction site safety.  Mr. Goodman was happy to hear about Ms. Harrison, 
because, at the time, it was hard to find people for that role. 
[162]  Ms. Harrison called Mr. Goodman in early October, and they arranged a meeting 
at the site office.  When they met on Oc tober 8, Ms. Harrison told Mr. Goodman about 
her qualifications and experience and he agre ed to pass her name along to NSC.  He 
knew NSC was looking for a local safety pers on for the Lofts.  He did not know the 
qualifications NSC was looking for, and coul d not recall if Ms. Harrison gave him a 
résumé.  Although present, Mr. Ford did not play an active role in the first meeting. 
[163]  Mr. Goodman testified that the excavation for the Loft s began and finished in 
October.  However, because there were pr oblems with finalizing insurance and permit 
issues, nothing further could be done after that except to build the framing for the 
concrete to be poured.  As Mr. Goodman put it,  progress on the Lofts came to a standstill, 
and there was not much for those on site to do. 
31 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[164]  According to Mr. Goodman, Ms. Harrison first worked out of the site office 
because the first aid trailer was not ready.  When she started work, Mr. Westbrook told 
Mr. Goodman to get part of the former “show” trailer ready for use as a first aid trailer.  
This required another trailer on site to be m oved, and the show traile r to be re positioned.  
The move took place on about November 1, after the show trailer was gutted.  Before part 
of it could be converted for first aid use, the trailer ha d to have power and a phone 
connected, and needed shelves, a desk, and a be d.  Mr. Wiens, who was to use the rest of 
the trailer, moved into it on about November 4.   
[165]  At the hearing, Mr. Goodman described the type of c onversations Mr. Ford and 
Ms. Harrison had in the site office as fairly open “high school ” banter.  There was 
swearing and comments containing sexual innue ndo.  No one objected to what was being 
said during the first two week s Ms. Harrison was on site.   
[166]  When Ms. Harrison first started at the Lo fts, she assisted bot h Mr. Ford and Mr. 
Goodman with minor administrative tasks.  On occasion, she help Mr. Goodman set up 
job interviews.  Goodman described her as bein g helpful at first, but that over time it got 
to be “a bit much”.   
[167]  In Mr. Goodman’s opinion, Ms. Harrison began over-stepping her bounds.  For 
example, on one occasion, she called him at 7: 30 a.m., wondering where he was.  He took 
exception to the call, because he did not think he had to report his whereabouts to anyone.  
In Mr. Goodman’s view, Ms. Harrison got progressively more demanding, and after 
about three weeks, he wanted Ms. Harrison to  move out of the site office.  In his 
evidence, he stated that the first aid trailer was ready for her on November 4.   
[168]  Mr. Goodman noted that he and Mr. Ford ha d the only keys to th e site office.  Ms. 
Harrison would regularly borrow Mr. Ford’s key to open the site office in the morning, 
because Mr. Ford and Mr. Goodman were not necessarily there to do it. 
[169]  Mr. Goodman recalled that, on one occasion, Ms. Harrison played three messages 
she had received on her phone fr om Mr. Curatolo, and one she received from her father.  
This happened in about the third week she wa s on the job.  Mr. Goodman said he found it 
embarrassing to listen to the messages left by Mr. Curatolo, as they had been friends for 
many years, and he had not been aware of th is side of him before .  He described the 
32 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
message from Ms. Harrison’s father as one of the most bizarre phone messages he had 
heard and said he felt sorry for Ms. Harrison because of it. 
[170]  Prior to November 4, Mr. Goodman r ecalled that Ms. Harrison had dropped an 
item on the floor, and asked him to “spank” her for being a “bad girl”.  He declined, but 
suggested that she ask Mr. Ford, w ho smacked her “on the butt”.   
[171]  On another day, probably in late Octobe r, Ms. Harrison and Mr. Goodman had a 
conversation about pictures on a wall calendar.  They both expr essed their opinions as to 
whether the women in the pictures had “real ” or “fake” breasts.  Mr. Goodman could not 
remember if Mr. Ford was present that day.  According to Mr. Goodman, the next day, 
when Mr. Ford was out of the office, Ms. Ha rrison pulled up her sh irt and commented to 
Mr. Goodman that she did a good job of disguising the size of  her breasts.  He testified 
that he did not mention this incident to Mr . Ford until after Ms. Harrison left the Lofts. 
[172]  Mr. Goodman recalled that, on November 4, Ms. Harrison spoke to him about Mr. 
Ford.  She said only that she was not comfortable workin g with him, to which Mr. 
Goodman replied that she did not have to wo rry as she would soon be  moving to the first 
aid trailer.  According to Mr. Goodman, Ms.  Harrison agreed and the discussion ended.  
She did not specifically mention that she felt Mr. Ford was sexually harassing her.  In 
cross-examination, he said that he did not want to know why she made the comment.  He 
was not particularly worried a bout what she had to say, and it  raised no “red flags” for 
him.  She never brought the matter up again. 
[173]  Mr. Goodman also recalled that Mr. Cu ratolo called him on the evening of 
November 4.  He wanted to know what kind of person Mr. Ford was, and why Ms. Harrison was upset.  Mr. Goodman told him he was not sure, but  that he would take care 
of the problem.  At the hearing, Mr. Goodman stated that Mr. Curatolo did not say that Mr. Ford was sexually harassing Ms. Harrison.  He also stated that he did not know why Mr. Curatolo was asking the kinds of questions he was. 
[174]  Mr. Goodman testified that he found Ms. Harrison’s manner of dress 
inappropriate for the work place, in that she wo re tight jeans.  The tops she wore varied 
from tight to baggy to dressy.  As not much wo rk was going on at the s ite at first, he did 
not think her dress was much of an issue, but he thought that when  work started in 
33 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
earnest, it would have been more appropriate for her to wear clothes she could move 
around in more easily.  In cross-examination, he agreed that his concerns were an issue of 
common sense.  They had nothing to do with a ny Navigator, Con-Forte, or WCB rules.   
[175]  Mr. Goodman stated at one poi nt that he believed he mentioned the issue of Ms. 
Harrison’s clothing to Mr. We stbrook after she conducted an  orientation for several 
workers in the site lunch room.  She was wear ing a low cut top and tight jeans, with the 
top of her underwear visible in the back when she knelt down to point out something 
related to the orientation.  According to Mr. Goodman, her manner of dress was the “talk 
of the day”, and after it happened, the men were no longer listening to what she had to 
say.  Mr. Goodman said he found Ms. Harriso n’s manner of dress a distraction for the 
other workers at the site, and that it ope ned the door for inappropriate comments.  
However, in cross-examination, he was much  less certain of when he spoke to Mr. 
Westbrook, or about what. 
[176]  Mr. Goodman went on to say that, over tim e, he did not think Ms. Harrison was 
doing enough safety sweeps of the job site, some thing that was part of her job.  While it 
did not pose much of a problem in the firs t weeks, it became an issue for him as 
construction on the site ramped up.  He did not mention anything to  Ms. Harrison at the 
time, because she was not his employee and he did not see it as his role.  Rather, he 
contacted Mr. Westbrook at the end of November, to tell him that Ms. Harrison should be 
paying more attention to her work. 
[177]  Mr. Goodman stated that, on December 7, Ms. Harrison and Mr. Ford had an 
argument about her business cards and her cel l phone.  According to Mr. Goodman, Ms. 
Harrison wanted to get Navigator cards that indicated she was a CSO, but Mr. Ford 
refused to let her.  Accordi ng to Mr. Goodman, this was the first time he heard her raise 
the issue of her business cards. 
[178]  On Thursday, December 8, Mr. Goodman and Mr. Ford arrived at the site office 
after the start of the day.  Upon entering, they found a large com puter printout of 
pornographic websites Mr. Ford had accessed on  his computer.  Mr. Goodman responded 
by asking Mr. Ford how he got any work done.  In cross-examination, he stated that he 
34 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
was surprised by the size of the printout.  He recalled Mr. Ford once asking him to look at 
a pornographic website once in th e site office, after hours, in  mid or late November.  
[179]  Later on December 8, Mr. Goodman got a phone  message from Mr. DeDominicis.  
However, they were not able to speak together until the next day, at which time Mr. DeDominicis told Mr. Goodman that Ms. Harrison had made a sexual harassment 
complaint against Mr. Ford.  Mr. DeDomini cis did not provide Mr. Goodman with any 
particulars, nor did he provide h i m  w i t h  a  c o p y  o f  M s .  H a rrison’s written allegations.  
Mr. Goodman, despite apparently  having no details of the alle gations, replied that he had 
seen nothing that would sugge st that Mr. Ford was sexuall y harassing Ms. Harrison.   
[180]  When Mr. Goodman told Mr. Ford about the complaint, Mr. Ford denied the 
accusation.  Mr. Goodman did not give Mr. Ford any specifics of the complaint. 
[181]  Mr. Goodman called Mr. DeDominicis to relay Mr. Ford’s re sponse, and then 
asked what he should do.  In cross-examin ation, he agreed that  he also told Mr. 
Westbrook and Mr. DeDominicis th at Mr. Ford and Ms. Harris on had engaged in childish 
behaviour, but that there had been nothing sexual.  Prior to December 8, Ms. Harrison 
had never complained about Mr. Ford to Mr. Goodman, except on the one occasion when she said he made her uncomfortable.  Mr. DeDominicis said that Mr. Ford and Ms. Harrison should be separated, and that they should have no  contact.  Mr. Goodman was 
directed to separate Ms. Harrison and Mr. For d.  He and Mr. Wiens were to act as her onsite liaisons in future.  Once she moved to the first aid trailer the following Monday, Mr. Goodman thought that was the end of the matte r.  In cross-examination, he confirmed 
that he had no further discussions about Ms. Harrison’s complain t on the weekend of 
December 10 and 11. 
[182]  Mr. Goodman stated that he found out the following week that Mr. Nixon had told 
Ms. Harrison not to come in on Friday, December 9.  When she came in on Monday, December 12, she was about 40 minutes late for work.  Before her arrival, Mr. Goodman 
had complained to Mr. Westbrook about he r absence, because a concrete pour was 
scheduled for that day, and the company could face a fine if the pour went ahead without a safety officer present.  As  I understand Mr. Goodman’s ev idence, in the end, the pour 
was not held up by her absence, as the concrete  was not due to be de livered until later in 
35 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
the day.  Mr. Goodman testified that he di d not complain to Mr. Westbrook about Ms. 
Harrison being late on December 13, but t hought that Mr. Wiens might have.   
[183]  Mr. Goodman stated that Ms. Harrison ha d been late for work before December 
12, but added that he always knew why she was away and that her reasons were 
legitimate.  He never asked anyone to discip line or fire Ms. Harrison because of those 
absences.  He did not find out that she had been fired until Mr. Curatolo called him on 
December 20, wanting to know why Ms. Harrison’s employment had been terminated. 
[184]  Mr. Goodman also kept a daily journal or log of what he did at the Lofts work 
site.  Mr. Goodman did not disclose the jour nal until after he began giving his evidence, 
as he stated he had misplaced it and only di scovered it just before the hearing began, 
when looking for some documents unrelated to  the complaint.  He said he was not 
searching for the log book as such, because no one had asked him to.  He stated at the hearing that he “more or less” made his entries on the day events occurred.  The log consists primarily of a record of weather conditions and who was working for Navigator 
or Con-Forte on a given day.  There are some comments about Ms. Harrison.  On 
October 18, Mr. Goodman recorded the following comment: 
Wife made comment about Kori’s clot [?]  & shoes 
[185]  Mr. Goodman could not remember the c ontext in which the comment was made, 
except that he recalled that his wife aske d him if Ms. Harrison was dressed in an 
appropriate manner for a safety person.  When  asked in what circumstances his wife 
made the comment, he said that he imagin ed his wife must have  stopped by the site 
office. 
[186]  On November 3, Mr. Goodman wrote “Kori dr iving me nuts” in his journal, but at 
the hearing he could not remember why he  wrote the comment.  On November 7, he 
noted that Ms. Harrison was not coming in beca use her daughter was sick.  On November 
16, he recorded that Ms. Harrison was not presen t at the work site and did not answer her 
phone.  He does not record when he called he r, or if Ms. Harrison later provided an 
explanation for her absence. 
[187]  On December 2, Mr. Goodman made the following entry: 
36 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
Meet 2 Guy’s for Job Interview 
Kori came In pulled up chair 
Told them what she expects from  
Them.  Im fuckin dumbfounded 
Stay away from Me Please   [reproduced as written] 
Mr. Goodman testified that he was upset because Ms. Harrison had joined in and 
interrupted him while he was inte rviewing two potential workers. 
[188]  On December 12, Mr. Goodman noted in his journal that Ms. Harrison was late, 
arriving at 7:40 a.m.   
[189]  Mr. Goodman did not make log entries regarding Ms. Harrison for November 4, 
the day she told him she was concerned about Mr. Ford; December 9, when Mr. 
DeDominicis asked him about the sexual harassment complaint; December 13; the second day she was criticised for being late  for work; or December 20, the day NSC 
terminated her employment.   
[190]  Mr. Goodman testified that, at the tim e Ms. Harrison was hired, safety people 
were at a premium in the Kelowna area, and th at it was preferable to keep her on staff 
even if the building site was not busy when sh e first started.  When she started, she would 
often arrive earlier than Mr . Goodman and Mr. Ford, both of  whom would often be away 
from the work site for extended periods of the day, and at different times.   
[191]  Mr. Goodman testified that he believed Ms. Harrison was in the habit of arriving 
at 7:30, although the start time was supposed to be 7:00.  Prior to construction starting in 
earnest, Mr. Goodman was not particularly concerned, as it appeared that she was 
normally putting in eight hours a day.   
[192]  In cross-examination, Mr. Goodman stated  that, although he and Mr. Ford wanted 
Ms. Harrison to move out of the site office and into the first aid trailer much earlier than she did, neither he nor Mr. Ford took any direct initiative to effect the move. 
[193]  Mr. Goodman explained that the City of  Kelowna building permit for the Lofts 
could not be issued and the pouring of the concrete foundations could not start until a 
37 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
new home warranty for the project was in place .  He recalled that the first concrete pour 
took place on about December 13, and believed that the building permit had been issued 
on December 9.  When it was pointed out to him that the permit was not issued until December 19, he agreed that the concrete ha d been poured without the required building 
permit.  
[194]  After Ms. Harrison left the Lofts, Mr. G oodman said that a female CSO was hired 
from a temporary labour supplier and worked  at the site until Mr. Campbell started in 
early January. 
2. Dave Westbrook 
[195]  As senior project manager for Navigato r for the Lofts, Mr. Westbrook’s duties 
included budgeting, contract negotiations with s ubcontractors, and liaison with architects 
and engineers involved in the project.  Mr. Westbrook stated that he visited the Lofts 
about five times in November 2005, and six or  seven times in December.  Mr. Westbrook 
stated that Mr. Goodman worked for Con-Fort e, and was supervised by Mr. Kuntz, ConForte’s general manager in Calgary, and that  Navigator and Con-Forte share office space 
in Calgary.  Mr. Westbrook agreed in cross- examination that Navigator did not seek 
tenders for the concrete forming work at the Lofts, or for the project manager position.  
Instead, it contracted dir ectly with Con-Forte. 
[196]  Mr. Westbrook confirmed in cross-examination that he was responsible for 
arranging safety services for the Lofts.   He knew that Mr. Nixon, through NSC, had 
previously provided safety serv ices to Con-Forte in Calgary, and met with him in early 
October 2005 to discuss the Lofts in Kelown a.  He told Mr. Nixon he wanted safety 
services at the Lofts to BC standards, and wa nted NSC to provide th e appropriate safety 
manuals.  Mr. Westbrook told Mr. Nixon that th ere were risks involved in the BC project, 
and that he wanted 100% safety coverage on site.  Mr. Westbrook also told Mr. Nixon 
that he wanted a CSO.  On October 7, 2005, Mr. Nixon called Mr. Westbrook, and they 
agreed that NSC would provide safety serv ices at the Lofts for $6000 per month.  Mr. 
Westbrook immediately filled out a blank purchase order, and re peated that he wanted a 
CSO on site.  However, this requirement was not set out in the purchase order. 
38 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[197]  Mr. Westbrook testified that he got a call from Mr. Goodman, who told him a 
person with a Level 3 first aid certificate, Ms. Harrison, might be  available to work at the 
Lofts.  Mr. Westbrook called Mr. Nixon an d told him about Ms. Harrison, but Mr. 
Westbrook says he repeated that he want ed someone with a CSO designation.  Mr. 
Westbrook spoke to Mr. Nixon afte r Ms. Harrison was hired, w ho told him that he would 
be sending Ms. Burton, a CSO, to oversee Ms. Harrison’s work at the Lofts.  Mr. 
Westbrook accepted the arrangement as the best that could be had at the time.  He knew 
Ms. Harrison had a Level 3 first aid certific ate, and that this was adequate for WCB 
purposes.  Mr. Nixon told Mr . Westbrook that both Ms. Bu rton and Ms. Harrison would 
look after compiling the safety manual for the Lofts site.  Mr. Westbrook agreed that the 
first part of Ms. Harrison’s employment was during the preconstruction phase.  By early 
December, Con-Forte had begun form buildi ng and concrete pouring up to ground level. 
[198]  The office space used by Mr. Ford and Mr. Goodman, and eventually Ms. 
Harrison, was initially leased by Navigator.   Later, the lease was taken over by ConForte.  When Navigator was the lessee,  it did not charge Con-Forte rent.   
[199]  Mr. Westbrook testified that Mr. Good man never contacted him about the 
November 4 conversation with Ms. Harrison concerning her first complaint against Mr. 
Ford. 
[200]  Mr. Westbrook could not explain why Ms. Ha rrison was criticized at the hearing 
for the manner in which she filled out some of the safety related forms, in particular for 
misidentifying the prime contractor.  He agr eed that on at least some of the forms done 
before her arrival at the Lofts, Mr. Nixon had made the mistake of listing himself as the 
prime contractor. 
[201]  It was Mr. Westbrook’s recollection that  the building permit for the Lofts was 
obtained on December 19, but that some work  had already started.  Permits for the 
excavation and building of the foundation we re already in place, and the excavation 
started in mid-October.   
[202]  Mr. Westbrook stated that in October an d November, he became concerned about 
the fact that safety reports for the Lofts were not coming to him with the frequency he 
expected.  As a result, he contacted NSC in Calgary, saying  he was not happy with what 
39 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
was happening.  Mr. Nixon told him that he would ensure that Ms.  Burton made more 
regular trips to Kelowna. 
[203]  While in Kelowna in late November, Mr. Goodman reported to Mr. Westbrook 
that Ms. Harrison had some fa mily problems that required her to leave the work site 
early.  This was a problem for the project, as a safety person had to be on site before any 
work could be done. 
[204]  Mr. Westbrook testified that he also hear d from Mr. Ford sometime in November, 
complaining that Ms. Harrison was wearing ti ght pants and loose t ops at work, not in 
keeping with appropriate wor kplace clothing.  Mr. Ford went  on to tell Mr. Westbrook 
that he had raised his concerns with Ms. Harrison.  Mr. West brook did not get any 
complaints from anyone else concerning Ms. Harrison’s manner of dress. 
[205]  In the last week of November, Mr. Fo rd and Mr. Goodman complained to Mr. 
Westbrook that Ms. Harrison was refusing to m ove to the first aid trailer that was now 
available.   
[206]  Mr. Westbrook testified that he called Mr. Nixon on December 6.  He asked Mr. 
Nixon to have Ms. Burton go to Kelowna and speak to Ms. Harrison about her manner of 
dress.  He also complained about Ms. Harrison’s demand for a cell phone and CSO 
business cards.  A few days later, on December 8, Mr. Nixon confirmed with Mr. 
Westbrook that Ms. Burton had met with Ms. Harrison. 
[207]  Also in early December, Mr. Westbrook tes tified that he got a call from Mr. Ford, 
complaining that Ms. Harrison was demanded business cards showing her as being with 
Navigator, and indicating that  she had a CSO designation.  She also wanted a cell phone.  
Mr. Westbrook told Mr. Ford that the cell phone  was the responsibility of NSC, and that 
Ms. Harrison should contact Mr. Nixon about it.   At the hearing, Mr. Westbrook stated 
that he did not consider the issues being raised  as serious ones.  In any event, he made no 
notes of any of the conversati ons he had about Ms. Harrison. 
[208]  Mr. Westbrook testified that, on December 9, he was informed about a sexual 
harassment complaint concerning Mr. Ford.  Mr. Westbrook met with Mr. Nixon and Mr. 
DeDominicis on December 9 for about 20 minut es to discuss the complaint.  Mr. 
40 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
Westbrook said he would contact Mr. Ford and Mr. Goodman about what was going on, 
which he did, and Mr. Nixon said  he would contact Ms. Harrison to get her side of the 
story.  During the meeting, Mr. Westbrook t hought Mr. Nixon had something in writing 
from Ms. Harrison, but Mr. Nixon did not gi ve Mr. Westbrook or Mr. DeDominicis a 
copy.  
[209]  Mr. Nixon told Mr. Westbrook and Mr. DeDominicis th at Ms. Harrison accused 
Mr. Ford of inappropriate touching, a ‘sla p on the backside’, and pornography on his 
computer.  When Mr. Westbrook contacted Mr. Ford, Mr. Ford said that the allegations 
were completely fabricated.  Mr. Goodman in turn told him that, while there had been 
some flirtation between Mr. Ford and Ms. Harrison, there had been no sexual harassment.  
Mr. Goodman’s comments surprised Mr. We stbrook, because when he had been on the 
Lofts site, he had seen nothing out of the or dinary.  Mr. Westbrook’s investigation of the 
complaint took about 20 minutes, and again, he made no notes of any of his discussions. 
[210]  Mr. Westbrook spoke to Mr. Nixon the Monday following the complaint.  Mr. 
Nixon told him he had sent Ms. Harrison hom e for the day on Friday, and would move 
her to the first aid trailer when she returned  to work.  Mr. Nixon went on to say that Ms. 
Harrison was happy with that arrangement.  Mr. Westbrook then told Mr. Nixon he 
would call Mr. Ford, and warn him to stay aw ay from Ms. Harrison.  He then called Mr. 
Ford and told him to leave Ms. Harrison alone.   
[211]  Mr. Westbrook recalled Mr. Goodman compla ining to him that Ms. Harrison was 
late for work on or about December 14, not showing up until 7:40 am, and that work 
could not start until she arrived. 
[212]  Mr. Westbrook wrote an undated letter to  Mr. Nixon, in which he complained 
about Ms. Harrison.  Based on Navigator’s computer records, Mr. Westbrook believed 
the letter was written on December 19, 2005.  The letter is as follows: 
It has come to our attention that Ko ry Harrison has been disruptive on the 
site with our site personnel and our forming contractor Conforte 
Contracting Ltd.   
Please talk to her and if we have any further problems, we will have to 
have a meeting to discuss using your firm for our safety needs.   
41 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
The letter does not mention a specific reas on for Mr. Westbrook’s complaint, beyond Ms. 
Harrison being “disruptive”.  
[213]  At the hearing, Mr. Westbrook stated that  he wrote the letter because he was 
concerned about Ms. Harrison’s dress and attendance.  He was also unhappy with the 
lack of reports he was getting from NSC and the slow progress with the safety manual. 
[214]  Mr. Westbrook went on to say that he ne ver spoke to Mr. Nixon about the letter, 
nor did he ever recommend that Ms. Harri son be disciplined or her employment 
terminated.  Furthermore, he never discussed the termination of Ms. Harrison’s employment with Mr. Nixon after it happened.  As well, he was unaware of anyone from Con-Forte speaking to Mr. Nixon about Ms. Ha rrison being fired.  From December 20 to 
31, he had no contact with Mr. Nixon. 
[215]  Mr. Westbrook next spoke to Mr. Nixon in mid-January 2006.  He told him that 
he was not happy with NSC’s work on the Loft s.  The safety manuals were still not 
ready, and he was concerned that there mi ght be a safety audit done, given that 
construction was well under way.  Mr. Nixon said he would have the manuals ready by the end of January, but did not. 
[216]  Initially, Mr. Westbrook recalled that Navigator discontinued using NSC for 
safety services at the Loft s at the end of February 2006. 
[217]  Mr. Westbrook next spoke to Mr. Nixon in June 2007.  He heard Mr. Nixon was 
working at a camp near Sundry, Alberta, and went to see him.  Mr. Westbrook told Mr. 
Nixon that Navigator was involved in a se xual harassment complaint (Mr. Westbrook 
assumed Mr. Nixon was already aware of it) and asked if he would help the company.  Mr. Nixon said he would come to the hearing, which was then scheduled for July 2007.  He told Mr. Westbrook that NSC had ceased all operations.  
[218]  Mr. Westbrook confirmed that the building permit was not issued for the Lofts 
site until December 19, 2005.  The delay was caused in part because there had been a change in the origin al building plans. 
[219]  Mr. Westbrook was at the Lofts site on about November 6, 2005.  At the time, he 
asked Mr. Nixon to have Ms. Burton talk to Ms. Harrison about her dress at the work site.  
42 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
He complained that he did not think her ma nner of dress – tight jeans and baggy tops – 
was appropriate.  He never raised the matter with Ms. Harrison directly, as his approach 
would be to go through the management structur e.  He confirmed that prior to November 
6, he probably never spoke to Mr. Nixon about wh at Ms. Harrison wore to work.  He also 
confirmed that neither Navigator nor Con-Forte had a written dress code. 
[220]  Mr. Westbrook confirmed that, when he vi sited the Lofts, Ms. Harrison picked 
him up at the Kelowna airport, made telephon e calls for him and got contracts signed on 
his behalf.  He also confirmed that he never told her she ha d to move from the office she 
shared with Mr. Ford and Mr. Goodman to the first aid trailer.  He had told Mr. Nixon, 
sometime in late November, that Mr. Ford was complaining that she would not move.  
Again, Mr. Westbrook had no notes of his disc ussions with Mr. Fo rd or Mr. Nixon.   
[221]  Also in cross-examination, Mr. Westbrook  agreed that an assertion made in 
paragraph 11 of both Navigator’s and Con-Fo rte’s Response to Complaint Form – that 
Ms. Harrison “would regularly bend over in short skirts and attempt to ensure that Mr. Goodman and Mr. Ford were paying attentio n to her actions” – never happened.  He 
agreed that to his knowledge, she never wore sk irts for work, but he reiterated she wore 
tight jeans.   
[222]  Mr. Westbrook further confirmed that anot her assertion in Navigator’s and ConForte’s Response to Complaint Form – that Ms. Harrison demanded, on a daily basis, that 
she be given a cell phone, and demanded busin ess cards that indicat ed she was a CSO – 
was based on information provided by Mr. Ford. 
[223]  Mr. Westbrook confirmed that Navigator does not provide training for anyone in 
regard to work site safety.  Rather, the co mpany hires professionals to look after that 
work.   
[224]  Mr. Westbrook confirmed that, during her employment, Ms. Harrison approached 
him several times in regard to getting th e Lofts’ WCB registration completed.  Mr. 
Westbrook could not recall any of the communi cations Ms. Harrison recorded as having 
had with him regarding the WCB registra tion during November and December.  The 
Lofts was eventually registered with WCB on about December 19, 2005.   
43 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[225]  Mr. Westbrook recalled having a c onversation with Mr. Nixon on about 
December 14, 15, or 16, relating a complain t from Mr. Goodman about Ms. Harrison 
being late for work and leaving early, ther eby holding up construc tion.  Mr. Westbrook 
told Mr. Nixon that this was unacceptable, and that he wanted different arrangements 
made.  He also wanted to know where the safety manuals were.  Mr. Westbrook had no 
other conversations with Mr. Nixon prio r to Ms. Harrison’s employment being 
terminated.  At the hearing, Mr. Westbrook expr essed the view that, if anyone’s services 
should have been terminated, it should have been NSC’s.  He agreed that Ms. Harrison 
had been “caught in a squeeze.”  For example,  he said he did not think she should have 
been terminated for the clothing he says sh e wore, the cell phone issue, or the business 
card demand, but simply should have been spoken to. 
[226]  In cross-examination, Mr. Westbrook agr eed that NSC continued to receive 
payments for services rendered to Navigator.   The last payment from Navigator to NSC 
was dated May 31, 2006.  He did not know who the safety consultant on site was immediately after Ms. Harrison, but believed it was Mr. Campbell. 
3. Marco DeDominicis 
[227]  As noted earlier, Mr. DeDominicis is president of both Navigator and Con-Forte.   
[228]  Mr. DeDominicis testified that on December 8, Mr. Nixon contacted him by 
phone, telling him that there was a sexual ha rassment complaint concerning the Lofts, 
and that the RCMP might have to be involved.  The next day, Mr. Nixon met with Mr. 
DeDominicis in his office in Calgary.  Mr. Nixon brought some sort of form with him 
that Mr. DeDominicis thought might have been  hand written.  In cross-examination, Mr. 
DeDominicis said it was unlikely that he would have read it.  Mr. DeDominicis recalled Mr. Nixon saying that he would look into the complaint from his end.  
[229]  Mr. DeDominicis told Mr. Westbrook to l ook into the situation.  As well, he 
called Mr. Goodman to ask him what was going on.  Mr. Good man denied that Mr. Ford 
had sexually harassed Ms. Harr ison, and said there were ju st childish things going on 
between them.  He recalled Mr. Goodman re lating to him Ms. Harrison’s suggestion to 
Mr. Goodman and Mr. Ford that they spank he r.  At the end of the conversation, Mr. 
DeDominicis did not feel he had an issue that needed to be solved.   
44 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[230]  On December 9, Mr. DeDominicis says  he and Mr. Nixon also discussed a 
complaint made by Mr. Ford against Ms. Harri son.  Mr. DeDominicis expressed the view 
that neither Mr. Ford nor Ms. Harrison could be fired without more information.   
[231]  Mr. DeDominicis had a furthe r conversation with Mr. Nixon a week or so after 
the December 9 meeting.  Mr. Nixon stated he was watching Ms. Harrison’s 
performance.  Mr. DeDominicis stated he had no recollection of Mr. Westbrook telling 
him that NSC had terminated Ms. Harrison’ s employment shortly before Christmas.   
4. Steven Brown 
[232]  Mr. Brown has been operating Okanagan Sa fety Systems and Solutions Ltd. since 
2003.  Prior to that, Mr. Brown had been involved in worker  safety for many years with 
the WCB.  In June 2006, Mr. Ford hired him as a consultant for Navigator to review the Lofts Occupational Health and Safety plans.  He found deficiencies in  a number of areas, 
and offered to make the necessary revisions.  Mr. Brown eventually became site safety 
supervisor for the Lofts, monitoring the work  of an onsite safety worker on a bi-weekly 
basis.  
[233]  I understand from Mr. Brown’s evidence th at only the City of Vancouver requires 
a CSO to be on site for certain projects, and that there was no such requirement for the Lofts.  However, there was a requirement that  there be someone on site with at least a 
Level 2 first aid certificate.  
[234]  Mr. Brown testified that, at the time th e Lofts was being built, the construction 
industry in Kelowna was extremely busy.  Th ere were not enough workers to fill all the 
vacancies.  
5. Jack Kinakin  
[235]  Mr. Kinakin worked at the Lofts for Con- Forte as a labourer and carpenter.  In 
January 2006, Mr. Ford asked him for a written statement in regard to Ms. Harrison.  In 
the statement, he said he found her “t oo friendly”, and that  he felt “somewhat 
uncomfortable with her clothing a nd generally flirtatious demeanour.”  
45 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[236]  Mr. Kinakin testified that he participated  in a safety orientation session presented 
by Ms. Harrison sometime in early November 2005.  The meeting took less than one half 
hour, and no one was present othe r than Ms. Harrison and himself.  
[237]  According to Mr. Kinakin, Ms. Harrison wa s wearing tight jeans and a small red 
winter jacket over a low-slung t-shirt.  Mr . Kinakin thought Ms. Harrison’s dress was 
more suited for a social event than for the workplace.   
[238]  During the safety meeting, Ms. Harrison we nt through a safety checklist with Mr. 
Kinakin while he sat at a ta ble and bench.  While going th rough the list, Ms. Harrison 
was standing up, with one leg on the bench, with her body hovering over the table.  Her 
posture made Mr. Kinakin uncomfortable, and he backed away from her.  
[239]  In cross-examination, Mr. Kinakin agreed that he was not suggesting that Ms. 
Harrison’s manner of dress was an invita tion by her to be sexually harassed.   
[240]  Mr. Kinakin also stated that while on th e work site, Ms. Harrison talked to him 
about non-work related matters more than th e norm.  He would walk away from her 
because it made him uncomfortable.   
[241]  In cross-examination, Mr. Kinakin stated he was asked by Mr. Ford to be a 
“character witness” concerning Ms. Harrison.  He understood th is to mean that he was to 
give a general description of Ms. Harrison’s conduct on site, and how she related to other 
workers.  
6. Nick Piattelli 
[242]  Mr. Piattelli worked for Con-Forte at the Lofts while Ms. Harrison was there.  In 
January 2006, Mr. Goodman asked him to write a statement about her time on the work 
site. 
[243]  Mr. Piattelli’s statement is brief: 
Statement of Kori Harrisons appearance 
I Nick Piattelli witness 
Unnecessary appearance of Kori Harrison and unprofessional work 
ethics. 
46 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
Spent more time talking with the men than doing her job. 
Sincerely “Nick Piattelli” 
Jan. 10.  06 
[244]  Mr. Piattelli testified that he also participated in a safety orientation session 
presented by Ms. Harrison in late October 2005.  It took place in the site lunch room, and 
about 15 people were present.   
[245]  Ms. Harrison went through a list of safety  issues, making those present all aware 
of the rules for the site.  Mr. Piattelli reca lled that Ms. Harrison was wearing clothes he 
did not consider appropriate for a work site .  She had on tight, low-cut jeans, a low-cut 
shirt or sweater, and a jacket. 
[246]  At the hearing, Mr. Piattelli clarified th at his comment about Ms. Harrison’s work 
ethic was in relation to her ma nner of dress.  She also spen t an inordinate amount of time 
“chatting up one of the young kids” on the s ite.  Instead of working, the young men 
would stop and talk with her. 
[247]  In cross-examination, Mr. Piattelli agr eed that he did not know all of Ms. 
Harrison’s duties, had not seen her job desc ription, and did not know what she did when 
not around him. 
[248]  Mr. Piattelli went on to say that he wrote his statem ent after Mr. Goodman told 
him Ms. Harrison had made a sexual harassment complaint. 
7. David French 
[249]  Mr. French wrote a statement on January  20, 2006 regarding Ms. Harrison.  He 
could not recall who asked him to write it.   
[250]  Mr. French attended a safety orientation meeting with Ms. Harrison sometime 
early in November.  About 10 people were pr esent.  He recalled that Ms. Harrison was 
wearing low-cut pants, and a tight white t op.  From the back, her skin was uncovered 
below the waistline and her thong underwear was visible. 
[251]  Mr. French felt Ms. Harrison was unprofessional during the meeting, in that she 
was too chatty and not serious enough.  Overa ll, Mr. French thought th at there was a lack 
47 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
of safety enforcement on the site.  In cross- examination, Mr. French also agreed that it 
was unprofessional to look at por nography while on the work site. 
[252]  In March 2006, Mr. French took over the site  safety role at the Lofts, under the 
oversight of Mr. Brown.  At the time, he had Level 1 first aid, and got his Level 2 
training in June 2006.  He has si nce obtained his CSO certification. 
[253]  After he began looking after safety issues, Mr. French was asked to look for any 
reports done by Ms. Harrison in October th rough December 2005, but he could not locate 
anything. 
[254]  Mr. French confirmed that wh ile doing the safety work at the Lofts, he completed 
two hazard assessment forms.  He did not note the correct name of the prime contractor 
on either one, but had not realized what he wa s filling out at the ti me.  He stated that 
properly naming the prime contr actor was an important issue in regard to WCB coverage 
for injured workers.  
8. Findings of Fact 
[255]  Credibility is a key issue in this complaint.  Counsel for Ms. Harrison and for the 
corporate respondents both argued that the principles found in Faryna v. Chorny  lead to 
the inevitable conclusion that their clients’ view of events is the correct one.  Ms. 
Harrison made several allegations against Mr. Fo rd.  For his part, Mr. Ford denied all the 
allegations except one.   
[256]  Overall, I find Ms. Harrison’s version of  events more in harmony with what a 
practical and informed person would readily  recognize as reasonable, within the 
environment of the Lofts worksite. 
1. Journals 
[257]  I find Ms. Harrison’s daily journal to be a ge nerally accurate record of her work at 
the Lofts, created contemporaneously as even ts occurred.  I do not find, as suggested by 
Navigator and Con-Forte, that it was viewed by  her as a “private” doc ument.  There is no 
reason to conclude that entries in the journal were made after the events described in an effort to bolster her complaint.  The langu age in the journal regarding Mr. Ford is 
48 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
circumspect until December 8, as would be expected in a document that would have been 
accessible to others at the Lofts.   
[258]  I find Mr. Goodman’s journal is also a genuine work-related document, but it is 
much sparser than Ms. Harrison’s journal.   
[259]  Mr. Goodman made six references to Ms. Harrison in his journal.  One was his 
wife’s observation about Ms. Harrison’s cl othing her first day on the job, another 
concerned her participation in a job interview,  and there were two references to her not 
coming to work or being late (on November 16 and December 12).  His journal contains less detail of day to day issu es at the Lofts than Ms. Harris on’s, and contains no reference 
to significant events: Ms. Harrison’s Nove mber 4 complaint; her December 8 complaint; 
Mr. Goodman’s involvement in the follow-up regarding the December 8 complaint; or 
Ms. Harrison’s dismissal on December 20.  
2. Qualifications and NSC Supervision 
[260]  When Ms. Harrison was hired by NSC, safety  officers were at a premium at the 
time in Kelowna.  Navigator and Con-Forte were aware of Ms. Harrison’s qualifications: she held a Level Three first aid certificate.  Mr. Westbrook agreed to the arrangements 
Mr. Nixon promised to make, to ensure that she was supervised by a CSO.    
[261]  NSC’s supervisory on-site presence consis ted of visits from Ms. Burton.  NSC’s 
principal, Mr. Nixon, never visi ted the site.  This lack of  on-site supervision by Mr. 
Nixon was not Ms. Harrison’s fault.   
3. Employment Relationships 
[262]  The employment relationships of the principal witnesses were varied.  Ms. 
Harrison was the only person employed in the tr aditional sense.  Messrs. Ford, Goodman 
and Westbrook were all styled as independe nt contractors.  Ms. Harrison provided 
administrative support services to Mr. Ford, as contemplated by her contract of employment.  To a lesser extent, but as set ou t in her journal, Ms. Harrison also provided 
administrative support services to Mr. Good man.  For example, she was involved in 
hiring workers, as her name was given in  ads as a contact person along with Mr. 
Goodman.  Had Mr. Goodman not wanted her to provide servi ces to Con-Forte, he could 
49 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
simply have told Ms. Harrison to stop.  Navigator and Con-Forte had a close and 
interrelated working relationship at the Lofts.  
[263]  Mr. Goodman was the person Ms. Harris on looked to with her November 4 
complaint, and the person Mr. Westbrook asked to look into her December 8 complaint.  Mr. Goodman complained to Mr. Westbrook ab out Ms. Harrison being late for work on 
December 12, and, on the same date, directed her, on Mr. Westbrook’s instructions, to 
move into the first aid trailer.   
[264]  In my view, the working relationships between Ms. Harriso n, Mr. Ford, and Mr. 
Goodman were, for the purposes of a human ri ghts analysis, inextricably linked.  Both 
Mr. Ford and Mr. Goodman were clearly in  positions of authority over her in the 
workplace.  As such, she was in an “employ ment” relationship, as that term has been 
broadly defined in the human rights case law, with Navigator and Con-Forte.  See, for example, Nixon v. Vancouver Rape Relief Society , 2002 BCHRT 1 (rev’d, but not on this 
point, Vancouver Rape Relief Society v. Nixon et al ., 2003 BCSC 1936; Vancouver Rape 
Relief Society v. Nixon , 2005 BCCA 601) (paras. 72-73). 
4. Harrison’s General Comportment and Dress 
[265]  Mr. Ford described Ms. Harrison as be ing incompetent, manipulative, and 
annoying.  At the hearing, he expressed concerns about he r manner of dress.  He 
suggested she invited “a spanking” and danced around the office as if she were a stripper.  
Mr. Goodman described her as meddlesome and also expressed concerns about her 
clothing.  His main concern appeared to be  the distraction her dress caused on the 
worksite, and the practicality of what she wa s wearing, given the dema nds of her job.  At 
the same time, he agreed that before construction ramped up at the Lofts, how Ms. Harrison dressed was not an issue.   
[266]  Ms. Harrison denied she invited Mr. Ford to hit her on the bu ttocks, or danced 
around the office ‘like a stripper’.  She also testified that while at the work site, she wore 
safety boots, jeans, t-shirts, sweaters, hoodies and jackets.  When outside on the site, she 
wore a hardhat and a first aid safety vest.  The respondents’ witnesses variously described 
her as wearing clothes that were  too tight, to loose, too reve aling, or too dressy – not the 
sort of clothes one expected to  see one a worksite.  Much was made of the reaction of the 
50 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
men who were present during safety orientat ions who saw her underwear when she bent 
over.  Some of the same witnesses describe d her as being chatty, flirty and overly 
friendly.   
[267]  The fact that Ms. Harrison may have had an outgoing personality is not a basis on 
which to criticize her as a worker.  As to her manner of dress,  Navigator and Con-Forte 
went so far as to make the spurious allegati on, in their Responses to the Complaint, that 
Ms. Harrison regularly wore short skirts to work, bending over so as to ensure that Mr. 
Goodman and Mr. Ford would not ice.  This significant allegation was not pursued at the 
hearing.  The evidence about Ms. Harrison’s underwear being exposed during a safety 
demonstration was of little relevance to the issues to be determined at the hearing.  I 
prefer Ms. Harrison’s evidence that she did not invite either Mr. Ford or Mr. Goodman to 
hit her on the butto cks.  I do not accept th e evidence that she danced around in the office 
‘like a stripper’, or lifted her top when she was with Mr. Goodman.  In the end, I find the 
attempt by the respondents to portray Ms. Harrison as someone who deliberately dressed and acted in a sexually provocative manner, and the implicit suggestion that she sexualized the workplace herself,  without merit.       
5. Mr. Ford’s Laptop Computer Use 
[268]  There is no dispute that, on December 8, Mr. Krebs created a printout of the 
pornographic internet websites Mr. Ford view ed up to that date using his laptop 
computer, or that Mr. Ford accessed pornograp hy on his laptop in the site office.  An 
issue is whether he asked Ms. Harrison to view pornography on his computer while she 
was in the site office.  I find that he did so, on at least one occasion.   
[269]  The corporate respondents argue that it is difficult to understand why Ms. 
Harrison would continue to use Mr. Ford’s computer to st ore personal information on up 
until December 12, given that she was allegedly fearful of him.  As I understand the evidence, Mr. Ford’s computer was the only on e in the site office, and was being used 
regularly for communication between workers with Con-Forte, Navigator, and NSC.  It was the only way for Ms. Harrison to access her email.  In all the circumstances, I do not 
see an inherent contradiction in her allega tions against Mr. Ford and her continuing use 
of his laptop.  As to Ms. Ha rrison’s personal information be ing kept on the laptop, I have 
51 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
no evidence before me as to whether that information was accessible to Mr. Ford, or 
whether it was password protected.   
6. Mr. Ford’s alleged use of Marijuana 
[270]  The corporate respondents argued that if Mr. Ford smoked marijuana during 
working hours, and smelled of marijuana on ot her occasions, as Ms.  Harrison alleged in 
her evidence and in her December 8 complaint,  she had a duty to report him immediately 
for breach of the safety plan.  As I understand  the argument, the fact  that she did not goes 
either to the issue of her overall competenc y, if what she said was true, or to her 
credibility, if she concocted the accusation.  In my view, there could be a number of 
explanations why Ms. Harrison did not rais e the issue earlier with Mr. Nixon.  For 
example, as a new employee, she could have feared that there would be serious and 
severe repercussions if she pursued the matte r.  Mr. Ford candidly admitted that he had 
had a serious drug problem in the spring of  2005, for which he received rehabilitation 
treatment.  As part of his evidence at the hearing, Mr. Fo rd produced a certificate for a 
drug test he had done on December 12, 2005.  Th e report was negative for all the drugs 
tested for, including marijuana.  While I have no reason to doubt the validity of the 
report, I have no information before me as to how long after the f act marijuana use is 
detectable, the report does not assist me in assessing Ms. Ha rrison’s allegations of earlier 
marijuana use. 
[271]  However, I do not need to make a finding as to whether Mr. Ford used marijuana 
as alleged by Ms. Harrison, as it is, in my vi ew, of no direct relevance to the issue of 
sexual harassment, except in so far as it may go to diminish Ms. Harrison’s overall 
credibility.  I find that it does not. 
7. Mr. Ford’s Comments and the November 4 Complaint 
[272]  In her testimony, Ms. Harrison stated that, fairly early on in her work, Mr. Ford 
told her he would trade her truck tires for sex.  In her December 8 email, she states that 
he made this statement to her about a week be fore the email.  While there is no certainty 
as to when the comment was made, I accept that it was made. 
[273]  Mr. Goodman described Mr. Ford and Ms.  Harrison as engaging in juvenile 
banter in the office.  Ms. Harrison, Mr. Ford , and Mr. Goodman were not together for the 
52 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
duration of the working day.  Both Mr. Ford and Mr. Goodma n were often off-site at 
different times.  As a result, Mr. Goodman’ s observations as to th e interaction between 
Mr. Ford and Ms. Harrison were necessarily li mited, and it is reasonable to conclude that 
Mr. Ford was more likely to sexually hara ss Ms. Harrison when Mr. Goodman was not 
present. 
[274]  Ms. Harrison says Mr. Ford bragged a bout his sexual explo its, propositioned her, 
and regularly made sexually charged comments to  her.  There is an allegation that he hit 
her on the buttocks.   
[275]  Mr. Ford says that what was alleged by Ms. Harrison did not happen, or did not 
happen in the manner she alleges.  His pos ition was that if anyone sexualized the 
workplace, it was Ms. Harrison.  The suggestion that he propositioned her for sex was 
simply a fabrication.  He did not initiate the slap on her buttocks, she did.  On one 
occasion, she mimicked a stripper.  She regu larly dressed in a provocative manner.  
Almost the entire content of her December 8 complaint letter to Mr. Nixon, by Mr. Ford’s 
account, was a fabrication.  He was the vict im, not her.  I do not accept Mr. Ford’s 
characterization of the situation.  A key consideration in coming to this conclusion is 
when Ms. Harrison first raised the issue of Mr. Ford’s alleged sexual harassment:  It was 
either November 4 or December 8.   
[276]  I accept Ms. Harrison’s evidence that she ra ised the issue of Mr. Ford sexually 
harassing her with Mr. Goodman on November 4.  She recorded that she had spoken to Mr. Goodman about Mr. Ford in her journal.  In my view, it was logical for her to go to Mr. Goodman, as she was working with him on a daily basis, and he was a friend of Mr. Curatolo, while she had no personal relationship with Mr. Nixon.  I also accept that she also discussed her concerns with Mr. Curatolo.   
[277]  I do not accept Mr. Goodman’s evidence that Ms. Harrison only said that Mr. 
Ford made her uncomfortable, or that her co mments would not raise any “red flags” for 
him.   
[278]  In my view, Mr. Goodman responded in the manner he did because he did not 
want the conflict between Ms. Harrison and Mr . Ford to become his problem.  When Ms. 
Harrison told him of her concerns about Mr. Ford, Mr. Goodman was in an awkward 
53 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
position.  Mr. Goodman believed that the probl em would simply go away, once the first 
aid trailer was ready and Ms. Harrison moved into it.  He would then not have to deal 
with Ms. Harrison’s complaint more formally. 
[279]  Mr. Goodman’s response to Ms. Harrison makes more sense in the context of her 
having made a complaint of sexual harassment,  rather than a vague statement that Mr. 
Ford made her uncomfortable. 
8. Move to the Trailer 
[280]  A great deal of time was spent during the hearing about when th e first aid trailer 
was ready for Ms. Harrison’s use and whether Ms. Harrison refused to move to it once it 
was ready.  The respondents argue that Ms. Harrison refused to move to the first aid 
trailer once it was ready, and instead continued to intermeddle in Messrs. Ford’s and Goodman’s work, making a genera l nuisance of herself.   
[281]  To repeat, November 4 is the day Ms. Ha rrison first complained to Mr. Goodman 
about Mr. Ford.  If the first aid trailer was r eady on that date as alleged in evidence, Mr. 
Goodman would not have had told her that things would improve once she was able to move.   
[282]  Ms. Harrison testified that the first aid trailer was still not fully ready for use 
when she moved into it on December 12.  Ms. Ha rrison noted in her journal on that date 
that Mr. Nixon had told her he was imme diately sending her a phone, a computer and 
business cards for her use.  Again, I have no reason to conclude that this entry was a 
concoction, and it supports her position about the trailer. 
[283]  Overall, I prefer Ms. Harriso n’s evidence about the delay in her move to the first 
aid trailer to that of Mr. Fo rd or Mr. Goodman.  She did not  move earlier because it was 
not ready, not because she was stubbornly refusing to leave the site office.  She recorded the problems with getting the space ready in her journal. 
9. Did Ms. Harrison Lift Her Top? 
[284]  Mr. Goodman stated in his evidence th at, on an unspecified  date, Ms. Harrison 
lifted her shirt to show him that she was able to conceal the size of her breasts.  I do not 
find this credible.  I reach this conclusion  for a combination of reasons.  First, Mr. 
54 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
Goodman made no note of the incident in  his journal, although he did record other 
incidents such as Ms. Harrison’s role in a job interview, his wife’s alleged complaint 
about her clothing, and her being late for wor k.  Second, he did not mention the incident 
when Mr. Westbrook contacted him about her December 8 complaint, but described her 
behaviour in the site office as  being merely juvenile banter .  Finally, Mr. Goodman never 
mentioned the incident to Mr. Ford until after Ms. Harrison was fired. 
10. Events of December 5 and 6 
[285]  Mr. Ford testified that on December 1 or 2, Ms. Harrison came into the office, 
complaining of a back injury, saying how sore she was.  Mr. Ford told Ms. Harrison that 
she ought to make an appointment with his wife, who was a chiropractor.  She agreed, 
and Mr. Ford made an appointment for her on about December 5.  After the appointment, 
Mr. Ford’s wife allegedly complained to him about Ms. Harrison wearing clothes that 
were extremely tight, and using f oul language while in her office. 
[286]  While the corporate respondents emphasized  the fact that Mr. Ford’s wife 
complained to him about how Ms. Harrison was dressed and spoke when she attended at her office for a chiropractic treatment, I di d not have the benefit of hearing evidence 
directly from Mr. Ford’s spouse on this topic.  In any event, it is unclear to me why Ms. 
Harrison’s alleged manner of dress or speech off the worksite would have any relevance 
to the issues I must decide.  I give th is aspect of the ev idence no weight.   
11. Events of December 7 and 8 
[287]  Ms. Harrison’s testimony was that she b ecame embroiled in an argument with Mr. 
Ford on December 7 over the issue of what wa s to be printed on her business cards.  She 
says Mr. Ford insisted she get a Navigator card and state on it that she was a CSO, as it 
would be good advertising for Navigator in the Kelowna area.  Mr. Ford says that it was 
Ms. Harrison who was insisting on a Naviga tor card, incorrectly noting that she was a 
CSO, because she wanted to present herself as someone she was not.  I prefer Ms. Harrison’s version of events regarding the business cards. 
[288]  I find that Ms. Harrison had several telephone conversations with Mr. Nixon the 
next day about this and other issues.  I accept that she brought up the problems she was 
55 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
having with Mr. Ford, including both the allegations of sexual harassment and the dispute 
about the business cards.   
12. Conclusion as to Events up to December 8, 2005 
[289]  As set out above, I have accepted that, on November 4, Ms. Harrison told Mr. 
Goodman that she had concerns about her working relationship wi th Mr. Ford.  Ms. 
Harrison set out the nature of the comments Mr . Ford made to her in some detail in her 
complaint to Mr. Nixon on December 8.  Mr. Ford agreed that he took time during the work day to look at pornography on his laptop computer, and I accept that, on at least one 
occasion, he asked Ms. Harrison to take a look at it with him.  Overall, I find that Mr. 
Ford was responsible for creating a sexualize d atmosphere in the site office for Ms. 
Harrison. 
13. Events on December 9 
[290]  I find that the investigation of Ms. Harrison’s harassment complaint by Mr. 
Westbrook, Mr. Dedominicis and Mr. Nixon wa s cursory and superficial.  As I 
understand the evidence, the entire initial mee ting and investigation took approximately 
one hour.  Mr. Westbrook thought that Mr. Nixon might have had a handwritten note 
setting out Ms. Harrison’s complaints, but apparently he and Mr . Dedominicis never 
asked for or were given a c opy.  Despite having almost no details about what was being 
alleged, Mr. Westbrook called Mr . Goodman, a Con-Forte empl oyee, and asked him what 
was going on, and also called Mr. Ford directly .  Mr. Westbrook seemed to be satisfied 
by the bare assurances he received from  Mr. Ford and Mr. Goodman that nothing 
untoward had happened.  He di d not provide Mr. Goodman with  a copy of the complaint, 
so Mr. Goodman was responding to ge neralities, not specifics.   
[291]  Mr. Goodman had no hesitation in telli ng Mr. Westbrook that there had been no 
sexual harassment, despite having no specifics as to what was being alleged.  Mr. Ford, 
for his part, said Ms. Harrison’ s allegations were a lie.   
[292]  Mr. Ford reacted immediately to Ms. Harri son’s allegations.  He retained counsel 
who wrote to Ms. Harrison on December 9, warning her about making further accusations against him.  He also had a blood te st done to establish that he had not been 
56 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
using illicit drugs.  These actions are completely  at odds with his evidence that he did not 
think much of the accusations when they were made.  
[293]  In their written submissions, the corporate respondents provide their version of 
Ms. Harrison’s motivation for making serious and extensive allegations of sexual 
harassment against Mr. Ford: 
Mr. Goodman and Mr. Ford each testif ied to the repeated requests made 
by Ms. Harrison for a cell phone and business cards – she required these as 
hallmarks of status, and when they did not materialize she made the allegations against Mr. Ford.  
[294]  As stated earlier, in deciding what happe ned, I must determine which version of 
events a practical and informed person would readily recognize as reasonable, in that 
place and in those conditions.  In my view, it is more reasonable to conclude that Ms. 
Harrison was the victim of a sexualized atmosp here created by Mr. Ford, rather than that 
she was the author of completely spurious alle gations over relatively trivial issues.  Given 
her personal circumstances – a single mother  who needed work and was trying to 
advance in construction site safety, and her relatively low status within the working hierarchy at the Lofts – it doe s not accord with the preponderance of prob abilities that she 
would have conducted herself as alleged by the respondents.  She needed her job and wanted to keep it. 
14. Events from December 12 to 18 
[295]  After Ms. Harrison’s late arrival on Decem ber 12, Mr. Goodman directed her to 
move to the first aid trailer, and to report to Mr. Wiens in future.  She states, and I accept, that she was not late the next  day.  She had no further confr ontations or issues with Mr. 
Ford or anyone else on the worksite until December 19.   
15. Events of December 19 
[296]  I do not accept the argument made by the corporate respondents that no one from 
Navigator or Con-Forte attempted to “recomm end, persuade, instruct , induce or influence 
the termination of Ms. Harrison’s employment.”   
[297]  Mr. Westbrook wrote to Mr. Nixon on D ecember 19, stating that Ms. Harrison 
had caused disruption with Navi gator and Con-Forte staff.  In my view, the meaning of 
57 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
Mr. Westbrook’s letter was clear: any future  problems with Ms. Harrison could result in 
cancellation of the NSC contract.  
[298]  At the hearing, Mr. Westbrook stated that from his point of view, Ms. Harrison’s 
dress, alleged tardiness, and ot her disputes on the work site were not the type of things 
that should have lead to her dismissal.  It was his view  that NSC’s contract should have 
been terminated, not Ms. Harrison’s employ ment.  The question then becomes why he 
wrote the December 19 letter at all.  It was the first and only correspondence NSC 
received about Ms. Harrison.  In my view, it is reasonab le to conclude that the 
“disruption” was Ms. Harrison’s complaint ag ainst Mr. Ford.  Despite Mr. Ford saying 
that he did not think much of her complaint,  he immediately hired a lawyer to warn her 
against making any further allegations.  He was clearly concerned.  He also had a drug 
test done, presumably to refute her allegatio ns of marijuana use.  Allegations had been 
made that he viewed pornography at the worksite, something he conceded to his 
employer.  In short, he suspected his position was becoming precarious, given Ms. 
Harrison’s allegations, and he reacted strongly.  In the end, Ms. Harrison was a less important part of the workforce at the Lofts than Mr. Ford, particularly as construction 
was finally getting underway in earnest.  In my view, the message to Mr. Nixon was clear 
– Ms. Harrison was expendable, and the contract with NSC was in jeopardy. 
16. Events on and after December 20 
[299]  I accept Ms. Harrison’s evidence that, im mediately after she received the notice 
that she was fired, she contacted Mr. Nixon, who told her he was letting her go, not because he wanted to, but because  Navigator wa nted her out.  That evidence is consistent 
with my conclusions regarding what actually occurred.   
[300]  Ms. Harrison was, according to her Employment Insurance Record of 
Employment, paid up to December 30, 2005, and earned a total of $8,421.21 insurable earnings.  I accept that sometime in January 2006, Mr. Nixon offered Ms. Harrison another position at another worksite, but she turned it down.  She then went on to obtain 
further safety officer traini ng, starting in March 2006.   
58 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[301]  There was some dispute as to when th e relationship between  NSC and Navigator 
ended.  I find that it came to an end as of the last payment NSC received from Navigator, 
on or about April 30, 2006. 
9. Analysis  
[302]  The complaint is brought under s. 13 of the Code : 
13 (1) A person must not 
(a) refuse to employ or refuse to  continue to employ a person, or  
(b) discriminate against a pers on regarding employment or any 
term or condition of employment  because of the race, colour, 
ancestry, place of origin, political belief, religion, marital status, 
family status, physical or mental disability, sex, sexual orientation 
or age of that person or because that person has been convicted of a 
criminal or summary conviction o ffence that is unrelated to the 
employment or to the intended employment of that person. 
… 
1. Submissions and Analysis 
[303]  With the exception of Mr. Ford’s submissi ons, I refer to the submissions of the 
parties within the context of the specific points of analysis.   
[304]  Mr. Ford’s submissions were brief.  He stated that Ms. Harrison’s complaint was 
filed out of revenge, and for financial gain.  After a very brief re view of two factual 
disputes in the complaint, Mr. Ford stated th at in his view, the dis pute between the parties 
arose because Ms. Harrison was angry with him because she did not get the specific 
business cards she wanted.  She was also angr y with him because he caught her trying to 
claim overtime that was not justified, and be cause he wanted her to move out of the 
shared office.   
[305]  Mr. Ford noted that Ms. Harrison’s accusa tions have affected his reputation and 
cost him money, but submitted that in the e nd, those allegations were not supported by 
the facts.  Her motivation was revenge, and her evidence was fabricated.  He stated, on 
the other hand, that he came to th e hearing with a clear conscience. 
59 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[306]  In her submissions, Ms. Harrison mainta ined that in law, NSC cannot be 
considered an employer under the Code .  As I understand Ms . Harrison’s oral 
submissions, because NSC was an extra-provincial entity not registered to do business in 
BC, the Tribunal has no jurisdiction to make  any orders against it.  Navigator and ConForte say there is no author ity for this proposition.   
[307]  In Carlisle v. Law School Admission Council , 2004 BCHRT 353, the Tribunal 
dealt with an analogous situ ation.  In that case, the complainant required an 
accommodation for a test administered in BC.  However, the corporate respondent argued that, because it did not perfor m any activities within the province of British Columbia, 
and because the conduct which formed the ba sis of the complaint occurred outside of 
British Columbia (provision of a requested accommodation), the Tribunal did not have jurisdiction over it.  
[308]  In Carlisle , the Tribunal stated 
While I accept that LSAC’s decision with respect to the accommodations 
which would, or would not, be offered to Mr. Carlisle were made in 
Newport, Pennsylvania, they were clearly implemented in British Columbia, the alleged denial of acco mmodation was with respect to a test 
occurring in British Columbia, and the impact of that denial was felt by Mr. Carlisle in British Columbia.  (para. 15) 
[309]  Here, the ultimate decision to fire Ms. Harrison was made in Alberta by NSC.  
However, as in Carlisle , that decision was implemented in BC, with respect to the 
employment of a BC resident working in BC.  The impact of the termination was clearly 
felt by Ms. Harrison in BC.   
[310]  As in Carlisle , I find that the Tribunal has jurisdiction to consider and dispose of 
the complaint as against NSC.  As I find that the complaint is justified, I have the 
jurisdiction to make whatever remedial or ders are appropriate, and cannot decline to 
exercise that jurisdiction.  As noted by Navigator and Con-Forte, any order against NSC 
can be registered with the BC Supreme Court and enforced extraterritorially.   
[311]  Navigator conceded that Ms. Harrison provided services to it, and that it 
constituted a party in control of her work environment.  On the other hand, Con-Forte relied on the analysis in Andrews v. Chilli House T hai Bistro and Chen (No. 2) , 2007 
60 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
BCHRT 88, following Crane v. British Columbia (Ministry of Health Services) , 2005 
BCHRT 361, to support its argument that it was not Ms. Harrison’s employer for human 
rights purposes.  As stated in Crane v. B.C. (Ministry of Health Services) and others , 
2005 BCHRT 361 (rev’d, but not on the point for which it is cited in this decision, 
HMTQ et al v. Emergency He alth Services Commission et al , 2007 BCSC 460): 
The interpretative principles to be applied in understanding and applying 
these terms and concepts are clear, having been discussed many times in a 
number of court and tribunal decisions .  They are to be applied broadly 
and flexibly, in order to ensure that the remedial purposes of the Code  are 
furthered.  (para. 71) 
[312]  In Crane , the Tribunal, after cons idering the appli cable jurisprudence, made the 
following observations: 
Drawing together the strands of this jurisprudence, I summarize the 
applicable principles as follows: 
a) “Employ”, “employer” and “employment” are to be given a 
large and liberal interpretation which will best achieve the purposes of the Human Rights Code ; 
b) The determination of the identity of the employer or 
employers is a highly fact-sp ecific enquiry; no one “test” 
can be developed which will serve in all contexts; 
c) While no one “test” can be  developed, there are a number 
of factors or considerations which may be relevant to the 
determination of employer stat us.  The most important of 
these include: 
(a) “Utilization” – this is the concept discussed in 
Pannu, Rosin  and Fontaine , which looks to the 
question of whether the a lleged employer “utilized” 
or gained some benefit from the employee in question; 
(b) Control – did the alleged employer exercise control 
over the employee, whether in relation to the determination of his or her wages or other terms and conditions of employment, or in relation to their 
work more generally, such as the nature of the work to be performed or questions of discipline and discharge?; 
61 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
(c) Financial burden – did the alleged employer bear 
the burden of remuneration of the employee; and 
(d) Remedial purpose – does the ability to remedy any 
discrimination lie with the alleged employer?  This 
concept was discussed in Tulk and Reid . 
It should go without saying that th e relative weight to be given to 
these four, and any other releva nt factors, will depend on the 
particular factual context in  which the issue arises … 
The importance of the remedial purpose in determining which entity or entities is the employe r is not, however, simply a matter 
of looking around for a party with  “deep pockets” who has the 
financial wherewithal to pay a damages award.  Rather, it is a question of situating the analysis within the context and purposes of the Code …  (paras. 79-81)  
[313]  Like Navigator, Con-Forte did not pay Ms.  Harrison’s wages.  Unlike Navigator, 
it was not a party to NSC’s cont ract.  Like Navigator, Con- Forte utilized Ms. Harrison’s 
safety services, and could not undertake construction unless she was present.  Despite the 
statement in her letter of employment that she was only to provide  non-safety support 
services to Navigator as time permitted, Ms.  Harrison assisted Mr. Goodman in hiring 
new employees (Ms. Harrison’s and Mr. Goodm an’s names were given as contacts for 
prospective employees at the Lofts) and provide d him with other administrative services.  
As well, Mr. Goodman was in a position of authority over Ms. Harrison and was involved 
indirectly in her hiring.  She looked to hi m for help in regard to her November 4 
complaint, and he was in a position to intervene on her behalf at that time, had he seen fit 
to do so.   
[314]  Mr. Goodman made inquiries on behalf of Mr. Westbrook after Ms. Harrison’s 
December 8 complaint, and saw to it that Ms.  Harrison moved to the first aid trailer on 
December 12.  After that date, he and Mr. Wiens were to be her on-site contacts.   
[315]  In my view, given the particular factual context of this complaint, including the 
close working relationship between Navigator and Con-Forte in the Lofts project, I find 
that, along with NSC and Navigator, Con-Forte was  also Ms. Harrison’s “employer”.  
Even if Navigator and Con-Forte were not  Ms. Harrison’s employers, they were the 
proximate cause of the dismissal.  Again, the threat contained in Mr. Westbrook’s letter 
62 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
to Mr. Nixon is apparent.  Mr. Goodman, a contract employee with Con-Forte, 
complained about Ms. Harrison on D ecember 12.  Mr. Westbrook, who wrote the 
December 19 letter to NSC, answered to Mr. DeDominicis, the president of both 
companies. 
2. Was Ms. Harrison Sexually Harassed? 
[316]  I agree with Ms. Harrison’s submission that many of the issues raised by the 
respondents in the course of the hearing are not relevant to the issues I must decide, 
particularly her relative frie ndliness or manner of dress.  Furthermore, the issue is not 
whether Ms. Harrison moved to the first aid trailer as soon as she could or whether she 
completed paperwork in a particular way.  Wh ether faults could be found in Ms. Harrison 
as to how she fulfilled her responsibilities is only  potentially relevant to the extent that it 
could have a negative impact on her overall credibility.  I find that it does not.   
[317]  As stated in many decisions of the Tribuna l, sexual harassment is a form of sexual 
discrimination: Janzen v. Platy Enterprises Ltd. , [1989] 1 S.C.R. 1252, [1989] S.C.J. No. 
41 (Q.L.).  The Supreme Court of Canada  defines sexual harassment broadly as: 
… unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature that detrimentally affects the 
work environment or leads to advers e job-related consequences for the 
victims of harassment.  It is…an ab use of power.  When sexual harassment 
occurs in the workplace, it is an ab use of both economic and sexual power.  
Sexual harassment is a demeaning pract ice, one that constitutes a profound 
affront to the dignity of the employees  forced to endure it….  (para. 56) 
[318]  The Court went on to quote with approval the following descriptions of sexual 
harassment: 
…Sexual harassment is any sexually-ori ented practice that endangers an 
individual’s continued employment, negatively affects his/her work 
performance, or undermines his/her sense of personal dignity… 
…Harassment behaviour may manifest itself blatantly in forms such as 
leering, grabbing, and even sexual assaul t.  More subtle forms of sexual 
harassment may include innuendos, and propositions for dates or sexual favours….  (para. 49) 
[319]  The Supreme Court of Canada went on to say: 
…Sexual harassment is not limited to demands for sexual favours made 
under threats of adverse job conseque nces should the employee fail to 
63 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
comply with the demands.  Victims of harassment need not demonstrate 
that they were not hired, were denied  a promotion or were dismissed from 
their employment as a result of thei r refusal to participate in sexual 
activity.  This form of harassment, in which the victim suffers concrete economic loss for failing to submit to sexual demands, is simply one manifestation of sexual harassment, albeit a particularly blatant and ugly one.  Sexual harassment also encomp asses situations in which sexual 
demands are foisted upon unwilling employees or in which employees must endure sexual groping, propositions, and inappropriate comments, but where no tangible economic rewards are attached to involvement in the behaviour ( Janzen  at para. 52). 
[320]  After reviewing the evidence, I find that Ms. Harrison was subjected to 
unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature that de trimentally affected her work environment 
and led to adverse job-related consequences for her.  As not ed above, that conduct started 
early on in her work at the Lofts.  Her N ovember 4 complaint to Mr. Goodman produced 
what proved to be an ineffectual result, in th at she was not able to move from the office 
she shared with Mr. Ford before problems arose again.   
[321]  Mr. Ford’s comments and activities in the workplace created a sexualized 
environment for Ms. Harrison.  Mr. Ford touched Ms. Harrison inappropriately.  He 
propositioned her for sex, and reacted negati vely when she did not respond positively.  
He viewed pornography on an apparently regu lar basis in the workplace, and on at least 
one occasion, asked Ms. Harrison to l ook at the material with him.   
[322]  According to Ms. Harrison, she met Mr. Ford’s comments with silence or with 
statements that she was there to work.  Th e power differential between Ms. Harrison and 
Mr. Ford was clear:  she was new to the wo rkplace, she was trying to establish a career, 
and she was a single mother who needed th e job; Mr. Ford was the highest ranking 
individual on-site for the prime contractor, Na vigator.  In all of the circumstances, it is 
clear that Mr. Ford knew, or  ought to have known, that his conduct was inappropriate and 
unwelcome.  Mr. Ford sexually harassed Ms. Harrison in the course of her employment. 
[323]  When things came to a head on December 8, Mr. Ford was not prepared to accept 
Ms. Harrison’s accusations against him.  He denied any misconduct to Navigator’s senior 
management, and retained a lawyer to warn Ms. Harrison off any further accusations.   
64 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[324]  The investigation into Ms. Harrison’s complaint by the corporate respondents, 
including NSC, was cursory, and within six working days Mr. Westbrook, on behalf of 
Navigator, gave a clear message to NSC: Ms. Harrison’s presence was a problem, and NSC’s contract was in jeopardy. 
[325]  Navigator and Con-Forte argue that there was no evidence that they caused a 
breach of the employment contract between NS C and Ms. Harrison, and that therefore the 
link between any damages that might flow fr om her dismissal and them has not been 
made out.  I disagree.  I conclude that NS C fired Ms. Harrison because of the thinly 
veiled threat contained in Mr . Westbrook’s letter of December 19.  The reasons given for 
the termination as set out in Mr. Nixon’s D ecember 20 letter were nothing more than 
pretextual.  In my view, the termination of Ms. Harrison’s empl oyment was directly 
linked to the sexual harassment which she was subjected to.  For pu rposes of a human 
rights analysis, it is irreleva nt that the termination t ook place during Ms. Harrison’s 
probationary period.  Discrimination against a person regarding employment, or any term or condition of employment, because  of sex, is prohibited under the Code , regardless of 
when it occurs during that person’s employment.   
3. Conclusion 
[326]  I find that Ms. Harrison’s complaint is justified.  Mr. Ford sexually harassed Ms. 
Harrison in the course of her employment at the Lofts.  Mr. Goodman, Con-Forte’s 
representative on site, failed to deal with the harassment when he learned of it.  NSC, at 
the indirect urging of Navigator, terminated  her employment soon after she complained 
about the harassment.  All the respondents, including NSC, therefore discriminated against Ms. Harrison, contrary to s. 13 of the Code , and share joint and severable liability 
for that discrimination. 
10. Remedy 
[327]  I will now consider the application of the remedial sections of the Code , given the 
foregoing findings of fact and analysis.  Subsections 37(2) through (4) of the Code  set out 
the various compensatory remedi es available to Ms. Harrison. 
65 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
37 (2) If the member or panel determines that the complaint is justified, 
the member or panel 
(a) must order the person  that contravened this Code  to cease the 
contravention and to refrain from committing the same or a similar contravention, 
(b) may make a declaratory order that the conduct complained of, 
or similar conduct, is discri mination contrary to this Code , 
(c) may order the person that contravened this Code  to do one or 
both of the following: 
(i) take steps, specified in the order, to ameliorate the effects of the discriminatory practice; 
(ii) adopt and implement an em ployment equity program or 
other special program to am eliorate the conditions of 
disadvantaged individuals or groups if the evidence at the 
hearing indicates the person ha s engaged in a pattern or 
practice that contravenes this Code, and 
(d) if the person discriminated against is a party to the complaint, or is an identifiable member of a group or class on behalf of which 
a complaint is filed, may order th e person that contravened this 
Code  to do one or more of the following: 
(i) make available to the pe rson discriminated against the 
right, opportunity or privilege that, in the opinion of the 
member or panel, the person wa s denied contrary to this 
Code; 
(ii) compensate the person discriminated against for all, or a part the member or panel determines, of any wages or 
salary lost, or expenses in curred, by the contravention; 
(iii) pay to the person discriminated against an amount that the member or panel consider s appropriate to compensate 
that person for injury to dignit y, feelings and self respect or 
to any of them. 
(3) An order made under subsection (2) may require the person against 
whom the order is made to provide a ny person designated in the order with 
information respecting the implementation of the order. 
(4) The member or panel may award costs 
66 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
(a) against a party to a compla int who has engaged in improper 
conduct during the course of the complaint, and 
(b) without limiting paragraph (a),  against a party who contravenes 
a rule under section 27.3 (2) or an order under section 27.3 (3). 
… 
1. Mandatory Order  
[328]  Pursuant to s. 37(2)(a), I order that NS C, Navigator, Con-Forte, and Greg Ford 
refrain from committing the same or a similar contravention of the Code . 
2. Discretionary Orders 
a. Declaration 
[329]  Pursuant to s. 37(2)(b), I declare that the conduct complained of is discrimination 
contrary to the Code. 
b. Wage Loss 
[330]  Ms. Harrison argues that the Tribunal shoul d award an amount equivalent to what 
she would have earned to the completion of the Lofts project, how ever long it took.  She 
also argues that she should recover any pay increases she would have received during the 
course of the project, and be compensated for the cost of the health and welfare related 
benefits she would have rece ived, once she passed her probationary period.  Ms. Harrison 
argues that any monies she ea rned after she left the Loft s should not be deducted from 
any wage loss compensation.  Briefly stated, Ms. Harrison  argues that the Tribunal 
should not continue to import the common law duty of mitigation into its wage loss 
calculations, as it is not required to do so under the provisions of the Code .  She also 
suggested in closing submissions  that there should be no reduction in compensation for 
wage loss, as it was clear the respondents had not taken her human rights complaint 
seriously. 
[331]  Navigator and Con-Forte argue that, had Ms. Harrison remained in NSC’s 
employment, she would have been in no better position than Mr. Campbell, whose employment ended on about April 30, 2006, when NSC stopped operating and its 
contract with NSC was terminated.  Navigato r and Con-Forte say that damages for lost 
wages should put the employee in the same po sition as if the employment contract had 
67 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
not been broken for a discriminatory reas on.  Ms. Harrison’s em ployment would have 
ended when Mr. Campbell’s did.  Navigator and Con-Forte also argue that it is not 
possible to compensate Ms. Harrison for the value of the benefit pl an promised by NSC, 
as there was no evidence led as to its value. 
[332]  I am not convinced that the Tribunal should depart from  its long-standing 
approach in regard to compensation for wage lo ss: mitigation is a factor to be taken into 
account in the particular circumstances of a given complaint.  As stated in Senyk v. WFG 
Agency Network (No. 2) , 2008 BCHRT 376 (para. 437): 
…the purpose of compensation in a hu man rights context is to restore the 
complainant to the position he or she would have been in had the 
discriminatory act not occurred …. 
To conclude otherwise would be to ignore th e compensatory nature  of s. 37(2)(d)(ii). 
[333]  When Ms. Harrison’s employment was te rminated, there were 18 working days 
left in her probationary period.  She had some  replacement work after she left the Lofts, 
but not in construction safet y.  Although she declined an o ffer of employment from NSC 
in January 2006, it is understandable that Ms . Harrison might be reluctant to be reemployed by NSC, particularly give the nature of her complaint and the ultimately 
ineffective response of NSC to it.  However, it  appears she rejected the offer out of hand, 
with little or no discussion as to what might  be involved.  I agree that an important 
consideration is the f act that NSC’s contract was cance lled with Navigator, and it ceased 
operations.   
[334]  As noted earlier, there was some uncertain ty in the evidence as to exactly when 
NSC ceased operations.  However, the last record of payment from Navigator to NSC is dated May 31, 2006, and appears to be a paym ent for an invoice from NSC dated April 
28, 2006.  Ms. Harrison attended safety traini ng courses from March through June 2006, 
and would not have been available for work while doing so.  Despite Mr. Nixon’s assurances, it is not at all clear that NSC w ould have paid for her co urses, as well as her 
salary, particularly after April 30.  Finally, I have no way of determining what the value of the promised health and welfare benefits wa s.  There is no certainty that Ms. Harrison 
would have received them, or that she w ould have been given any pay raises.   
68 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[335]  Having considered all the factors in eviden ce, I find that it is appropriate to order 
that the respondents, including NSC, compen sate Ms. Harrison for lost wages in the 
amount of $14,144.00, based on the her hourly ra te of pay of $20.00 per hour, for 8 hours 
per day, and for 85 working days, from January 1, 2006 to April 30, 2006, inclusive of 
statutory holidays and vacation pay at a rate of 4%. 
[336]  I make no order that Ms. Harrison be compensated for the value of any benefits or 
pay raises, or for the courses sh e took in or after March 2006. 
c. Expenses 
Disbursements 
[337]  Ms. Harrison argues that she should be compensated for expenses such as 
photocopying, postage, faxing, document prepar ation and other expe nses related to 
pursuing her complaint.  While I agree that  Ms. Harrison should be compensated for all 
of her reasonable out of pocket expenses (see below for legal expenses), it is not clear to 
me what the total of those expenses is.  If the parties are unable to agree as to the amount of the expenses, they are to inform me in writing within 60 days of the date on which this decision is issued, and I will determine a pr ocess for the resolution of the issue.  
Legal Expenses 
[338]  Ms. Harrison also argues that a broad approach should be taken in regard to 
compensation for her legal expenses, under s. 37( 2)(d)(ii).  She argues she should be able 
to recover the legal expenses she in curred in pursuing her complaint.   
[339]  A recent decision of the Tribunal, Senyk v. WFG Agency Network (No. 2) , 2008 
BCHRT 376, considered the same argument.  In Senyk (No. 2) , the Tribunal found that it 
has jurisdiction, under s. 37(2)(d)(ii) of the Code, to order a respondent to pay to a 
successful complainant compensation for all or a part of the legal ex penses incurred by 
the complainant in filing and pursuing th eir complaint to hearing (para. 449). 
[340]  As Senyk (No. 2) was decided after this complaint was heard, but before this 
decision, it is appropriate to give the partie s an opportunity to make further submissions 
on the application of Senyk (No. 2)  to this complaint.  I set out my directions for the 
timing of those further submissions  at the end of the decision. 
69 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[341]  I note for the parties’ consideration that the procedural history of this complaint 
differs from that in Senyk .  As set out in Harrison v. Nixon Safety Consulting and others 
(No. 2) , 2007 BCHRT 394, prior to the hearing, Na vigator, Con-Forte, and Mr. Ford 
made a time limited, “with-prejudice” settlement offer to Ms. Harrison that she rejected.   
[342]  Con-Forte, Navigator, and Mr. Ford then applied to have the complaint dismissed, 
pursuant to s. 27(1)(d)(ii) of the Code , on the basis that Ms. Harrison had refused a 
reasonable settlement offer.  In Harrison (No. 2) , I declined to dismiss the complaint 
prior to hearing, in part because the a pplication was made after the time-limit had 
expired, with the end result that Ms. Harrison would get nothing (para. 36).   
[343]  In their submissions, the parties should a ddress whether the existence of a rejected 
but significant settlement offer is a relevant  consideration when assessing the potential 
recovery of legal expenses. 
d. Injury to Dignity, Feelings and Self-Respect 
[344]  In her amended statement of remedy, dated April 16, 2007, Ms. Harrison sought 
$20,000 for injury to dignity, feelings, and self -respect.  Navigator and Con-Forte argue 
that the appropriate range of  damages under this heading is  $5,000 to $7,000.  In support 
of their position, they cite a number of  the Tribunal’s decisions, including Fougere v. 
Rallis and Kalamata Greek Taverna , 2003 BCHRT 23; Kwan v. Marzara and another , 
2007 BCHRT 387; Hashimi v. International Crowd Management (No. 2) , 2007 BCHRT 
66; and Clarke v. Frenchies Montreal Smoked Meats and  Blais (No. 2)  2007 BCHRT 
153. 
[345]  In Fougere  (para. 133), the Tribunal a dopted the seve n non-exhaustive 
considerations to be taken into account wh en determining compensation for injury to 
dignity in sexual harassment cases set out in Torres v. Royalty Kitchenware Ltd . (1982), 3 
C.H.R.R. D/858 (Ont. Bd. Inq.).  They are: 
1. the nature of the harassment, that is, was it simply verbal or was it physical 
as well; 
2. the degree of aggressiveness and ph ysical contact in the harassment; 
3. the ongoing nature, that is, the ti me period of the harassment; 
70 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
4. its frequency; 
5. the age of the victim; 
6. the vulnerability of the victim; and 
7. the psychological impact of the harassment upon the victim. 
[346]  I will address each of these considerations in turn.   
1. In the present complaint, the harass ment was mainly verbal, and included 
direct propositioning for sex.  It also included an invitation to view 
pornography in the workplace.  I take Mr. Ford’s physical contact with Ms. 
Harrison into account in point two. 
2. There were no issues of th reats of physical violence involved in Mr. Ford’s 
conduct, but there was at least one incident of unw elcome contact when he 
slapped her buttocks.   
3. The harassment began early  on in Ms. Harrison’s employment and permeated 
it.  The harassment ended after December 8.  
4. The harassment appears to have been more or less ongoing from October 18, 
2005 until December 8, 2005. 
5. Both Ms. Harrison and Mr. Ford are adults.  There appeared to be no 
significant age disparity between them, as she is in her late 20s and he 
appeared to be in his mid 30s. 
6. Mr. Ford was in a position of authority over Ms. Harrison.  She in turn needed 
a job to support her two children. 
7. Ms. Harrison presented herself as a se lf-reliant and motivated individual, but 
it was clear that she felt isolated and vulnerable by the turn of events at the Lofts.  She gave evidence that events at the Lofts often reduced her to tears after the work day, and that she felt particularly vulnerable at the time Mr. Ford threatened her with legal action and when she was fired. 
[347]  The highest award to date for injury to dignity, feelings and self-respect for sexual 
harassment ($10,000) was made in Gill v. Grammy’s Place Restaurant & Bakery Ltd. , 2001 
BCHRT 33.  In Gill, the harassment was extreme and egregious, and not comparable to that 
in the present case.  However, since 2001, damage awards for injury to dignity have risen 
generally.  See, for example, Senyk (No. 2) , (para. 470), in which $35,000 was awarded for 
injury to dignity in a complaint concerning discrimination in employment on the basis of a physical and mental disability, and Datt v. MacDonald’s Restaurants of Canada (No. 2), 
71 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
2006 BCHRT 169 (para. 294), in which $25,000 was awarded for injury to dignity in a 
complaint concerning discrimination in employment on the basis of a physical disability.  In 
Senyk (No. 2)  and Datt, the complainants had been employees of long standing, unlike the 
situation in the present complaint.  As well, the reasons for the large compensatory awards 
for injury to dignity were distinct from those in the present complaint.  While I agree that the 
nature of the harassment should attract a si gnificant award under this  heading, I do not 
agree that the amount proposed by Ms. Harrison is appropriate.  Pursuant to s. 
37(2)(d)(iii), I order the respondents, including NSC, to pay Ms. Harrison $15,000 in compensation to her for injury to dignity, feelings and self respect. 
d. Improper Conduct/Contravention of the Rules 
[348]  Ms. Harrison seeks damages under s. 37(4)(a) and (b) of the Code , on the basis 
that the respondents have engaged in im proper conduct during the course of the 
complaint and have contravened the rules of th e Tribunal.  Those sections are as follows: 
37(4) The member or panel may award costs 
(a) against a party to a compla int who has engaged in improper 
conduct during the course of the complaint, and 
(b) without limiting paragraph (a),  against a party who contravenes 
a rule under section 27.3 (2) or an order under section 27.3 (3). 
[349]  In Harrison v. Nixon Safet y Consulting and others , 2007 BCHRT 291, Ms. 
Harrison applied for better particulars, disc losure and costs from NSC, Con-Forte, 
Navigator, and Mr. Ford, pursuan t to ss. 27.3 and 37(4)(a) of the Code, for failure to 
disclose arguably relevant documents.  In Harrison (No. 1), the Tribunal declined to award any costs, leaving it to the member hear ing the complaint to determine the issue.  
In Harrison (No. 2) , I stated that it would be inappr opriate to dismiss a complaint on a 
preliminary basis where the issue of  costs was outstanding (para. 39). 
[350]  Ms. Harrison argues in her written subm issions that NSC ignored the Tribunal 
process after a certain point, and that Mr. Ford, Navigator and Con-Forte breached the 
Tribunal’s Rules and failed to disclose documen ts which would enable the parties to have 
meaningful discussions (presumably regarding settlement) and to get at the truth of the 
matters in dispute.  In regard to Navigator and Con-Forte, Ms. Harrison says at one point 
72 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
in her submissions that the two companies se t up structures intended to allow them to 
hide discriminatory practices.  For exampl e, there was no disclosure of documentation 
going to the relationship of Navigator to Con- Forte, nor was there timely disclosure of 
Mr. Ford’s contract with Navigator or of Mr . Goodman’s journal.  At the hearing, Ms. 
Harrison clarified her position, stating that the structural relationship between the two 
companies was not designed to de feat her complaint, but made it more difficult for her to 
pursue it. 
[351]  As I understand her oral submissions, Ms. Harrison argued that Navigator and 
Con-Forte did not disclose their documents  until early November 2006, well past the time 
in which they were supposed to do so.  They  filed their reply to Ms. Harrison’s amended 
statement of remedy in early December 2006,  again well past the time limit.  Ms. 
Harrison argues that these were both important breaches of the rules. 
[352]  Ms. Harrison also complained that Mr. Fo rd’s document disclosure consisted of 
three documents, two of which were prepared after the complaint was filed.  Before 
ceasing to participate in the process, NSC disclosed six documents, only one of which 
was new to Ms. Harrison.  Of the ten documen ts disclosed by Navigator and Con-Forte, 
only one was from before her hiring, one wa s from during her em ployment, and eight 
were from after she was fired.  In essence, Navigator and Con-Forte are saying that they 
had almost no documentation that was relevant to the hearing in their care and control.  
The majority of the documents disclosed for hearing came from Ms. Harrison.  Ms. 
Harrison argues that the lack of documentati on put her counsel at a disadvantage when 
cross-examining witnesses, and gave the tool of “instant deniability” to the respondents’ 
witnesses. 
[353]  In Ms. Harrison’s view, the lack of documentation, in combination with the 
respondents’ irrelevant pursuit of “red herrings” added a day to a day and a half to the hearing.   
[354]  In their written submissions, Navigator a nd Con-Forte deny that they engaged in 
any misconduct, but state they are “not without  sympathy” for Ms. Harrison in regard to 
NSC, given that it “has chosen to remain mute” since its solicitor removed himself from 
the record in October 2006.   
73 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[355]  At the hearing, Navigator and Con-Forte argued that they had not been unduly or 
significantly dilatory in co mplying with the Tribunal’s Rules , and had disclosed the 
relevant documentation they had.  Documents demanded by Ms. Harrison were not 
produced simply because they did not exist.   
[356]  It is surprising that Navigator and Con-Fo rte had such a paucity of documents to 
disclose.  However, with one exception, I am unable to conclude that they deliberately failed to make reasonable efforts to locate and disclose arguably relevant documents.  
Furthermore, the lack of documents has clea rly not assisted Navigator and Con-Forte in 
some areas.  For example, it has not helped th em that they apparent ly kept no records of 
their investigation of Ms. Harrison’s December 8 complaint against Mr. Ford.  It has not helped them that there are no records of their alleged complaints to NSC about Ms. 
Harrison’s performance, her dress, or the othe r issues they say reflected poorly on her as 
an NSC employee and, for my purpo ses, her general credibility. 
[357]  I am concerned that Mr. Goodman freely admitted that he made no attempt to 
locate his journal, but said he happened to  come across it while looking for something 
else.  It proved to be a relevant documen t, and should have been searched for and 
disclosed much earlier.  In the end, however, I do not find that  his late production of that 
document unduly delayed the hearing, or interf ered with the efficiency of the hearing 
process.  It was produced in time for him to be cross-examined on it without disruption of 
the hearing. 
[358]  Further disclosure by NSC would clearly have  been of assistance to all the parties, 
as would Mr. Nixon’s appearance at the hearing.  Had NSC participated in the hearing, there is a strong possibility that the hearing would have been longer, not shorter.  The 
reality is that NSC is no longer a viable company, and little would be gained from 
making a costs order against it.  Overall, in th e particular circumstances of this complaint, 
I do not believe it is ap propriate to order cost s against NSC.  I note in passing that if I 
were to make a cost award as a result of a respondent’s misconduct for procedural 
matters, the liability for those costs would not be joint and several, but payable only by 
the party responsible.     
74 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[359]  I take a different view of the situation in  regard to Mr. Ford, Navigator, and ConForte in regard to improper conduct during the course of a hearing.  In their pleadings, 
Navigator and Con-Forte put forward an asse rtion that was not true, that Ms. Harrison 
regularly came to work in short skirts a nd would bend over so that Mr. Ford and Mr. 
Goodman would notice.  During the course of  the hearing, Mr. Ford, Navigator, and ConForte attempted to portray her as a person who caused her own problems, in that she 
sexualized the workplace, by dressing and acting provocatively, and conducting herself 
inappropriately when dealing with the wo rkers on the site.  Co-workers with Ms. 
Harrison, who had no direct knowledge of the central issues to be determined, gave 
evidence which appeared to be aimed sole ly at calling her general reputation into 
question.  At one point during the hearing, Mr. Ford had to be cautioned not to confront 
Ms. Harrison outside the hearing room in re gard to her having made a complaint.  The 
unproven allegations of Mr. Ford, Navigator, and Con-Forte agains t Ms. Harrison have 
likely had the effect of damaging her reputa tion, both in her community and in the field 
of construction safety.  
[360]  In these circumstances, I am of the view that there should be a joint and severable 
cost award against Mr. Ford, Navigator, and Con-Forte, for improper conduct in the 
course of a hearing, in the amount of $3,000.   
e. Interest 
[361]  Pre-judgment interest is or dered in accordance with the Court Order Interest Act , 
R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 79, as amended, for wage loss, from April 30, 2006.  Post-judgment 
interest is ordered on compensation for expenses; costs; wage loss; and for injury to dignity, feelings and self-respect. 
11. Direction on Further Submissions  
[362]  I remain seized of the matter.  Given the ti me of the year, the parties will be given 
more than the usual time frame for submissions .  Ms. Harrison has 35 days from the date 
of this decision to make submissions on the application of Senyk (No, 2)  to this 
complaint.  The respondents will have a further 14 days to respond.  Ms. Harrison will have a further 7 days to reply. 
75 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)
[363]  To repeat, if the parties are unable to ag ree on the amount of disbursement related 
expenses incurred by Ms. Harrison, they are to  notify the case manager within 60 days of 
this decision. 
 
 
 Kurt Neuenfeldt
 
76 
2008 BCHRT 462 (CanLII)