[1] Crystal Koblensky filed a complaint against Westwood Inds. Inc. (“Westwood”) 
and Peter Schwab  (the “Respondents”)  alleging  that they discriminated against her 
regarding employment on the  basis of sex ual harassment , contrary to s. 13 of the Human 
Rights  Code.    
[2] The hearing was scheduled for May 29 and 30, 2006 at 9: 30 a.m. at the B .C. 
Human Rights Tribunal, 1170 -605 Robson St., Vancouver.   The file includes  a letter  sent 
by fax  from the T ribunal to the parties dated  May 30, 2005, that refers to  the hearing dates 
and indicates that a Notice of Hearing was enclosed.  There is a fax transmission 
confirm ation that the letter and Notice of Hearing  was received by the parties.   Further, on 
Decem ber 12, 2005 , the  case manager conducted a p re-hearing conference  (“PHC”)  at 
which  Ms. Koblensky and Mr. Schwab attended.  Mr. Schwab indicated that he  appeared 
on behalf of himself and Westwood .  In the confirming PHC memorandum , the case 
manager indicate d that the parties advised him they were in receipt of the Notice of 
Hearing.   The Tribunal records show that the case manager  left three telephone messages 
for Mr. Schwa b, reminding him of the hearing , in the week preceding the hearing.  None 
of the messa ges were returned.  
[3] Ms. Koblensky attended the hearing on her own behalf.  No -one appeared on 
behalf of the Respondents.   I waited until 9:50 a.m. at which time I commenced the 
hearing  being sat isfied that the Respondents had notice of the time and place of  the 
hearing.  
The Evidence  
[4] Ms. Koblensky was hired by  Westwood , a furniture manufacturer  on September 1, 
2004.  She described Westwood as a relatively small  shop, which employed about a  dozen 
men and women.  Women represented about  one third of the employ ees. 
[5] Ms. Koblensky’s job included sanding and staining furniture.  She had five years 
of related experience in the construction industry , including  sanding, painting, doing 
renovations and building.  This was her first job working on furniture and her firs t job 
2006 BCHRT 281 (CanLII)
 
2 after being away from the workforce for about three years due to the birth of her son and 
pursuing educational upgrading.  
[6] The essence of Ms. Koblensky’s complaint is that she was subjected to ongoing 
sexually explicit langua ge and behaviour by a co-worker  named  Scott.  No surname was 
provided.  She complained four times to  Mr. Schwab, her boss and the owner of 
Westwood .  Mr. Schwab  repeated ly said that he would talk to Scott, however there was no 
change in Scott’s behaviour, in fact , it escalated.  Ms . Koblensky’s employment was 
terminated on October 29, 2004 , a day after her fourth complaint respecting Scott, on the 
basis that Mr. Schwab had over -hired . 
[7] Ms. Koblensky testified as to the following chronology of events .  She stated that 
initially Scott spoke incessantly about the details of his sexual exploits with his girlfriend 
and would call out to her “Hey, lick my balls”.  
[8] She stated that others said that the “sex talk” was “just Scott”.  She got the 
impression  that others somewhat begrudgingly , put up with Scott’s behaviour .  Ms. 
Koblensky’s shift was from 8 a .m. to 5 p .m., which unlike the other women  who started 
work at 6 a .m., resulted in her being the only woman whose breaks coincid ed with Scott ’s.   
She felt Scott  could tell that his comments made her uncomfortable and that this had  the 
effect of provoking him to make more comments of the same nature . 
[9] On October 21, 2004, Ms. Koblensky told Mr. Schwab that Scott’s sexual 
comments were upsetting her and , in her view , were inappropriate in the wor kplace.  Mr. 
Schwab said he would talk to Scott.  Scott failed to attend at work the following day.   Ms. 
Koblensky thought that this was due to Mr. Schwab speaking to him, although she did not  
know this for sure.  Upon his return, Ms. Koblens ky testified th at Scott’s  behaviour “got 
worse”.  He made more and louder comments about his “dick”.  
[10] Ms. Koblensky complained to Mr. Schwab again on October 25, 2004.  It was her 
understanding that Mr. Schwab warned Scott not to continue talking “in that manner” on 
Octob er 26, 2004.  She testified that later that day, Scott persisted in making similar 
comments in her presence.  She asked him why he was acting like such a jerk to which he 
responded by asking h er why she was such a “bitch”.  She walked away feeling very ups et 
2006 BCHRT 281 (CanLII)
 
3 and confided in Jackie, a n older  female employee, respecting the interchange.  Jackie, 
whose teen-aged daughter also worked at Westwood,  stormed into the room and told Scott  
“to stop the sex-talk or he was going to have to deal with her ”. 
[11] Ms. Koblensky spoke to Mr. Schwab again on October 26.  She testified that he 
asked her if she had any suggestions.  Her suggestion was that Mr. Schwab do something 
more th an talk to Scott .  It was her view that h e needed to establish an ultimatum, a 
consequence, such a s suspension from work , if Scott continued .  Ms. Koblensky stated 
that Mr. Schwab told her to take her breaks alone instead of with the others.  She told Mr. 
Schwab that t his recommendation upset her as she felt as though she was being punished.   
He respon ded by saying that he would ask  Scott to take his breaks alone.  Ms. Koblensky 
stated that this rule was not enforced and that Scott continued to go into the lunchroom 
when she was there.  On one occasion, he specifically br ought  a cup into the room, put it 
down , looked  at her and sa id “suck my dick”.  
[12] On October 27, Scott jumped  up on a table in the work room and acted out 
masturbation in front of their supervisor.  Ms. Koblensky again complained to Mr. 
Schwab .  He responded by asking if a supervisor was pre sent. 
[13] On October 29, Ms. Koblensky was called into Mr. Schwab’s office  and was  told 
that her employment had been terminated as Westwood had over -hired. Ms. Koblensky 
testified that  she said she did not  understand why she was the one being fired.  Mr. 
Schwa b had no response beyond his one reason, that they had too many employees  for the 
work available .   
[14]  Ms. Koblensky testified that she was  shocked and upset , and stated that she would 
never have started to work for Westwood if she  had known she would be ter minated in 
such circumstances.  She believes she was terminated because she complained about 
feeling uncomfortable due to Scott’s inappropriate  sexual comments and behaviour .  Ms. 
Koblensky stated that five employees were hired after her, three of whom had  no prior 
experience.  Their employment was not terminated.   
2006 BCHRT 281 (CanLII)
 
4 [15] Ms. Koblensky immediately sought another job. With the assistance of a coworker, from Westwood, she found employment by the following week, and thereby 
suffered a wage loss of only two days at $9.00 an hour for 8  hours a day.  
[16] Ms. Koblensky stated that it is her understanding that Westwood has  subsequently  
closed.  She referred to documents disclosed by Mr. Schwab to her former counsel, which 
had been passed on to her, which disclosed Mr. Schwab’ s spending habits.  In response to 
my question respecting whether she wished to file any of the documents she had brought 
to the hearing she said no . 
Analysis and Decision  
[17] Ms. Koblensky alleges that the Respondents discriminated against her by 
subjecting h er to sexual harassment and terminating her employment when she persisted 
in complaining about it, contrary to s. 13 of the Code .  Section 13(1) provides:  
  A person must not  
(a) refuse to employ or refuse to continue to employ a person, or  
(b) discriminat e against a person regarding employment  or any term 
or condition of employment because of … the sex… of that 
person.. ,  
[18] At the hearing of every complaint, whether or not the respondent attends, the 
complainant is required to establish a prima facie  case of  discrimination .  A prima  facie  
case of discrimination is one which covers the allegations made and which, if the 
allegations are believed, is sufficient to justify a finding in the complainant’s favour , 
absent an answer or justification from the responden t: Ontario Human Rights Commission 
and O’Malley  v. Simpsons -Sears Limited , [1985] 2 S.C.R. 536  at para. 28 . 
[19] Sex discrimination includes sexual harassment.  In Janzen v. Platy Enterprises Ltd. 
(1989), 10 C.H.R.R. D/6205 (S.C.C.), the Supreme Court of Canada  addressed the human 
rights perspective on sexual harassment  in the workplace .  It stated:  
…sexual harassment in the workplace may be broadly defined as unwelcome 
conduct of a sexual nature that detrimentally affects the work environment or 
leads to advers e job -related consequences for the victims of the harassment….  
2006 BCHRT 281 (CanLII)
 
5 When sexual harassment occurs in the workplace, it is an abuse of both 
economic and sexual power.  Sexual harassment is a demeaning practice, one 
that constitutes a profound affront to the dig nity of the employees forced to 
endure it.  By requiring an employee to contend with unwelcome sexual 
actions or explicit sexual demands, sexual harassment in the workplace attacks 
the dignity and self -respect of the victim both as an employee and as a hum an 
being. (para. 44451)  
[20] In order to succeed in proving discrimination in this case , Ms. Koblensky must 
establish , on a balance of probabilities , that she was the victim of sexual harassment at her 
workplace and that it is reasonable to infer from the evide nce that her complaints about 
that harassment were a factor in the termination of her employment.  
[21] Ms. Koblensky was n ot subject to cross -examination,  therefore I am required to 
make a determination on the basis of my assessment of her  testimony alone .   I found that 
Ms. Koblensky  was somewhat nervous and at times had to reflect or look at her complaint 
in order to advise me of the exact date of an incident.  In response to my question 
respecting whether Mr. Schwab knew that Scott was going to the lunchroom  after he had 
been instructed to eat his lunch alone , she stated that she believed so , knowing Mr. 
Schwab’s daily routine, however she said did not know for sure. On the whole I found Ms. 
Koblensky a credible witness.  She was willing to make a comment con trary to her interest 
and she did her best to speak from her memory.  I note that she did not mention some of 
the allegations set out in her complaint form, which as a result are not evidence before me.  
In any event, the Respondents have called no evidenc e to contradict Ms. Koblensky’s 
evidence.  
[22] Sexual harassment can encompass a range of behaviours including, sexual 
comments and suggestive behaviour.  Ms. Koblensky has testified that her co -worker 
persisted in speaking about his sexual exploits, making ong oing sexual remarks about his 
penis, taunting Ms. Koblensky with comments like “suck my balls, dick ...” comments and 
acted  out self masturbation in a sensationalized manner standing on a table in the 
workplace  in her presence .  Ms. Koblensky was very clear  that the behaviour and 
comments were not welcomed by her, and whether or not others put up with them, she 
found them offensive and wanted her employer to have them stopped.   On the evidence 
before me , I find that Ms. Koblensky was subject to sexual harass ment while working for 
2006 BCHRT 281 (CanLII)
 
6 Westwood.  I also find that the efforts of Mr. Schwab appear to have done little , if 
anything , to stop the sexual harassment. Employers have an obligation to ensure that their 
workplaces are free of sexual harassment. In this case We stwood and Ms. Koblensky’s 
boss, Mr. Schwab failed to take any or sufficient steps to protect Ms. Koblensky from the 
harassment she was experiencing.  Both Westwood and Mr. Schwab, are  liable for acts of 
discrimination of their employees:  Robichaud  v. Cana da (Treasury Board) , [1987] 2 
S.C.R. 84, at para. 17.  
[23] Ms. Koblensky stated that it is her view that her employment was terminated 
because she insisted that Mr. Schwab address the offending sexual comments and conduct 
of Scott.  She testified that there wer e five people employed after her and that three of 
these employees had no prior experience , whereas she had five years of related 
experience.  With no evidence to the contrary , I find that it is reasonable to infer that Ms. 
Koblensky’s insistence that Mr. Schwab stop the sexual harassment occurring in the 
workplace , was a factor in the termination of her employment.   
[24]  Therefore , I find that Ms. Koblensky has succeeded in establishing a prima facie  
case of discrimination based on sexual harassment respectin g the terms and conditions of 
her employment and as a factor in the termination of her employment contrary to s. 13 of  
the Code .  In the absence of an answer from the Respondents I conclude that her 
complaint is justified.  
Remedy  
[25]  Section 37 of the Code,  addresses the issue of remedy.  It provides, in part:  
… 
(2) If the member or panel determines that the complaint is 
justified, the  member or panel  
(a) must order the person that contravened this Code to 
cease the contravention and to refrain from committing  
the same or a similar contravention,  
(b) may make a declaratory order that the conduct 
complained of, or similar conduct, is discrimination 
contrary to the Code,  
2006 BCHRT 281 (CanLII)
 
7 … 
(d) if the person discriminated against is a party to the 
complaint, … may order the person  that contravened this 
Code to do one or more of the following:  
… 
(ii) compensate the person discriminated against for all, 
or a part the member or panel determines, of any 
wages or salary lost, or expenses incurred, by the 
contravention;  
(iii) pay to the person discriminated against an amount 
that the member or panel considers appropriate to 
compensate that person for injury to dignity, feelings 
and self respect or to any of them.  
 
[26] Pursuant to s. 37 (2)(a) of the Code , I order Westwood and Mr. Schwab to cea se 
their contravention  of s. 13 of the Code  and to refrain from committing the same or a 
similar contravention.  
[27] I accept Ms. Koblensky’s testimony respecting her wage rate at Westwood , and 
that she suffered a loss of two days of work, due to her terminatio n.  Pursuant to s. 
37(2)(d)(ii), I  order Westwood and Mr. Schwab to pay Ms. Koblensky  two days wages in 
the amount of $144.00 .   
[28] Ms. Koblensky was subjected to sexual harassment for about two months.  She 
asked Mr. Schwab  to address the issue to no avail and finally, at least in part, had her 
employment terminated due to her requests that the employer provide her with a sexual 
harassment free workplace.   Pursuant to s.  37(2)(d)(iii),  I order Westwood and Mr. 
Schwab to pay Ms. Koblensky $ 4,000 for the injur y she suffered to her dignity and self respect.   
 
 
2006 BCHRT 281 (CanLII)
 
8 [29]  I order post -judgment interest.  Interest is to be calculated at the rate of 3% which 
is the bankers’ prime rate as published by the British Columbia Supreme Court Registry, 
in accordance with the Court O rder Interest Act , R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 79.  Liability  for all 
amounts ordered is joint and several.  
 
 Marlene Tyshynski , Tribunal Member  
.   
2006 BCHRT 281 (CanLII)