[1] PN has complained that both of the res pondents, FR and MR, have discriminated 
against her on the basis of her sex, family stat us, age, race, ancestry, colour and place of 
origin, contrary to  section 13 of the BC Human Rights Code .  
[2] PN is a mother from the Philippines. She was hired through an agency to work in 
the respondents’ home in Hong Kong as a hous ekeeper and caregiver to the respondents’ 
two children. She worked for the respondent s in Hong Kong for about one year. She 
came with the respondents when they moved to Canada and worked for them here. She 
was here for about six weeks when she fled  their home, which was a two-bedroom suite 
in a hotel. She says that, fo r much of her employment, she was the victim of ongoing 
sexual assault by FR and harassmen t, including assault, by MR.  
[3] Once she left the respondents’ hotel, PN stayed at a secure women’s shelter for 
victims of human trafficking. PN was without resources as she had no visa for work in 
Canada and she could not qualify for income a ssistance. FR made a number of efforts to 
have her returned either to H ong Kong or to the Philippines.  
[4] The respondents say in their response that they did not discriminate against PN on 
any of the alleged grounds. The respondents sought to dismiss the complaint under s. 
27(1) of the Code . The application was only pa rtially successful. See: PN v. FR and 
another , 2015 BCHRT 4. Those aspects of the comp laint that occurred outside of Canada 
are outside the jurisdiction of the Tribunal and are not part of the complaint. In addition, 
the parties’ names have been anonymized.  
[5] The original complaint was joined with a complaint under s. 43 of the Code  that 
the respondents had retaliated against PN fo r filing the complaint by sending a letter 
threatening legal action in Hong Kong and de manding payment of damages. Copies of 
the letter were sent to a nu mber of other recipients.  
[6] I earlier ruled that, at the outset of the hearing, the respondents could make an 
application to dismiss the retaliation complain t. No oral submissions were made but there 
was a written submission claiming that the Tribunal is without jurisdiction to decide the retaliation complaint.  
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
2 
 II HEARING LOGISTICS 
[7] The hearing was held in Vancouver. FR  provided a doctor’s note that he was 
medically unable to fly from his residence in Hong Kong to Vancouver. The complainant 
had time pressures and sought an early hearing.  After mid-April, she may not have been 
able to appear for a significant time, or at all. Accordingly, taking the competing 
positions into account, the hearing was ordere d to occur in March 2015. At his request, 
the respondents, particularly FR, would access the hearing by  videoconference. I ordered 
it to take place in the afternoons to accoun t for the time difference between Vancouver 
and Hong Kong.  
[8] At the opening of the hearing, th e respondents had not accessed the 
videoconference. The hearing commenced in th eir absence. During the hearing, it became 
known that FR sought to attend the hearing via conference call. A rrangements were soon 
made for that to occur and FR attended the rest of the day’s hearing by phoning in and 
listening to the evidence.  
[9] For the remaining days of the hearing, FR appeared by videoconference. MR did 
not appear at any time in the hearing; she was represented by FR. With the exception of 
FR himself, all of the respondents’ witn esses physically attended the hearing in 
Vancouver.  
[10] Cantonese interpretation was provide d for the respondents and Tagalog 
interpretation was provided for the complainant.  
III THE EVIDENCE 
[11] I heard from a number of witnesses in  the hearing. I have not catalogued the 
evidence of each witness. The following are my findings of fact from the evidence led at 
the hearing. I am entitled to ac cept some, none or all of a wi tness’ testimony. Where there 
was a disagreement in the evidence, my findings and reasons therefore are set out. In resolving conflicts in the evidence, and de termining whether to accept the evidence of 
any witness, in whole or in part, I have  adopted and applied the tests set out in Bradshaw 
v. Stenner , 2010 BCSC 1398, at para. 186 (citations excluded): 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
3 
 Credibility involves an assessment of the trustworthiness of a witness’ 
testimony based upon the ve racity or sincerity of a witness and the 
accuracy of the evidence that the wi tness provides. The art of assessment 
involves examination of various factor s such as the ability and opportunity 
to observe events, the firmness of his [o r her] memory, the ability to resist 
the influence of interest to modify his [or her] recollection, whether the witness’ evidence harmonizes with independent evidence that has been accepted, whether the witness changes his [or her] testimony during direct and cross-examination, whether the witness’ testimony seems 
unreasonable, impossible, or unlikely, whether a witness has a motive to 
lie, and the demeanour of a witness generally. Ultimately, the validity of 
the evidence depends on whether the evidence is consistent with the probabilities affecting the case as a whol e and shown to be in existence at 
the time.  
[12] As noted above, FR was not present for some of PN’s evidence. However, her 
evidence while he was absent was not that diffe rent from that contained in her affidavit 
filed regarding the application to dismiss. FR was present for PN’s evidence concerning 
the events that she said occurred in Richmond. When given the opportunity, FR was not 
very extensive in his cross-examination of  PN, confining it to only three questions.  
[13] MR did not testify, thus did not deny or give contrary evidence to that given by 
PN. FR testified but did not deny much of what  is contained in the complaint or what PN 
said in her testimony. The exception was a general comment he made that the 
respondents did not abuse PN.  
HONG KONG 
[14] As was ruled in the earlier decision, the ev ents that are said to have occurred in 
Hong Kong do not form part of the compla int because the Tribunal does not have 
jurisdiction over employment outside of BC. Ho wever, evidence of events in Hong Kong 
was tendered for the purposes of background.  
[15] PN was born in, and lived in, the Philippine s. She has two children there. At the 
time of these events, she was age 28. In order to be able to provide for her children, PN underwent training in the Philippines. She wa s associated with an employment agency 
but she had to pay for the training. She borro wed the money to pay for the training. She 
commuted from her village to Manila. PN’s fath er and sisters care for her children while 
she is away.  
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
4 
 [16] The employment agency obtained informa tion, including a promise by PN to be 
hardworking. They also had her photograph, her physical description and whether she 
would agree to certain matters. Many were listed. Some of the areas are: 
 Are you willing to care and sleep w ith babies/children during midnight? 
 Are you willing to accept your day-o ff on weekdays or assigned by your 
employer? 
 Are you willing to return home befo re 9:00 p. m. during your day off? 
 Can you promise not to use telephone without permission from your 
employer? 
 Are you willing to cut your hair short if your employer required? 
 Are you willing to go with your employer if  they travel to another country? 
[17] The agency secured PN employment w ith the respondents. She had to borrow 
money to pay for her travel from the Ph ilippines to Hong Kong. Once in Hong Kong, she 
had a contract of employment with the res pondents, signed by MR. PN  was to live with 
the respondents in their resi dence and they were to pr ovide her with food. PN was 
required to give one month’s no tice if she sought to leave. PN’s contract said she would 
get the sum of 3,740 Hong Kong Dollars per m onth. At the time of the hearing, this 
amounted to about $600 Canadian.  
[18] The respondents have two ch ildren and PN was involved wi th their care as well as 
household duties. PN would start her duties at  about 5:30 am and work until after 11:00 
pm. She was given no time for a break. She said  she had to eat her food while standing. If 
MR saw PN sitting down she would deduct some of her wages as a penalty. Her 
paycheques reflect this. She was also charge d for breakage, when she broke something 
belonging to MR.  
[19] The respondents employed another Filipi no woman. PN witnessed MR complain 
to the employment agency when another domestic helper ate the family’s food. PN said that when this woman left their employme nt she told PN to watch out for FR.  
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
5 
 [20] After she left, the respondents hired a nother Filipino woman who worked with 
PN. PN shared a room with the other domes tic worker in the re spondents’ residence. 
They became friends.  
[21] PN testified that MR would often speak to her in a vey demeaning way. She 
would accuse her of being evil. She would yell at  her and constantly told PN to carry out 
various chores. PN complained to the agency about her treatment at the hands of MR but 
the agency took no action and told her it would be OK.  
[22] PN said that MR would claim that the fa mily had a dispute with an individual and 
the family would hire someone to kill that  person. She says that it made her afraid; 
especially when the respondents knew where her children lived.  
[23] PN said that, after the first woman left  the respondents’ em ploy, FR started to 
sexually harass her. She said that there wa s CCTV in the residence and that FR would 
disconnect it when MR was out of the residence.  She said that FR would put lotion on her 
hand and make her stroke his penis. FR told PN not to speak of this to MR or to the other 
worker. PN had to repeat this 2-3 times per week.  
[24] FR would remind PN that she needed to  keep her job so she could send money 
home to her children. He would remind her th at she had debts to repay. PN obeyed FR. 
PN was intimidated. She did not complain to MR about FR. She did what FR ordered her 
to do. She felt that she had no choice. She did not think that th e employment agency 
would do anything if she reported it to them.  
[25] When the respondents decided that they want ed to come to Canada to allow their 
children to go to school here, they allowed the ch ildren to decide which of the women 
working for the respondents they would like to  bring with them to Canada. The children 
chose PN. FR said it was becau se her English was better.  
[26] When PN at first did not agree to come to  Canada, FR pressured her to join them 
in Canada. He told her that  it would be good for her as there was much opportunity and 
she would be able to benefit her own children. He took her to  the Canadian consulate in 
Hong Kong and he arranged for her to have a visa to accompany them. MR then had her sign an agreement that said: 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
6 
 This is a letter to confirm our schedule to Canada in July of this year. To 
under our working contract between you and me, the salary and working 
condition are based in Hong Kong. But it  will be extended to Canada and 
was agreed by both of us. The conditions are as follows: 
1) Salary is Hong Kong $3740.00 in monthly. 2) Have one day off for weekly a nd public holidays by follow Hong Kong 
calendar.  
3) Will have medical insurance coverage. 4) Have whole day meals provided. 5) Working time may be same as Hong Kong or shorter depends on 
Canada condition.  
The round trip air tickets for Hong K ong and Canada are provided by us.  
To protect our benefit, I also e xpect you to promise us you should pay 
back our money for visa fee, ticket s money just in case you suddenly to 
say don’t go to Canada with our family or break the contract.  
(The visa fee is Hong Kong $600 a nd tickets fee is Hong Kong $13,000.) 
If you break the contract, please you follow Hong Kong law by give us 
one month notice or give one m onth salary if you leave hurry.  
To under the labour law in Hong Kong, any helper do criminal action or 
make serious trouble, the employer no need pay any money to terminate 
the helper, so please pay attention an d keep good manner in this family.  
Actually, we are nice to helpers and want to keep good relationship to all, 
but if we find anyone against my fam ily, I should let her out and don’t 
give any money.  
Of course, I hope everything fine for us and we can enjoy the Canada life 
and don’t want to see any unhappy things happen.  
Please sign the below and return for me. Thanks very much for your help 
our family and wishing you all the best in the future.  
(as written) 
[27] Thus, PN could not change her mind after signing this agreement without 
becoming responsible to pay a staggering amoun t of money; almost four months’ wages. 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
7 
 In addition, PN says that the respondents conf iscated her passport. FR  says that it was 
held for safekeeping.  
[28] As it turned out, the visa secured for PN  was for 3 months and was a visitor’s 
visa. It is notable that FR testified that the visit was limited to three months but nothing in 
the documentation with PN shows that. PN di d not speak as if she knew the engagement 
was limited.  
[29] MR told PN she did not need to bring a ll of her belongings, as she would get new 
ones purchased in Canada. The family arrived in Richmond on July 7, 2013.  
RICHMOND 
[30] It was the respondents’ intention to buy a house in Richmond. They moved in to a 
suite in a hotel near the air port while their house was being purchased and made ready for 
them to occupy it. The hotel suite had two be drooms and a small kitchen area. The hotel 
provided a complimentary  breakfast buffet.  
[31] FR stayed in the master bedroom with hi s son. There was a bathroom as part of 
the master bedroom. MR stayed in the other bedroom with her daughter. PN had to sleep 
on the couch in the living area. Her clothes were  kept in a dresser dr awer in MR’s room. 
MR had to pass PN to get from her room to  the suite’s other bathroom. The couch that 
PN slept on was easily seen from both bedr ooms. There was no room to open the couch 
into a bed. PN had no private space. PN had now here she could retreat to be at rest and 
alone.  
[32] FR was asked in cross-examination why he  did not provide anot her hotel room for 
PN. He replied with a rhetori cal question of “she was the do mestic helper; if she didn’t 
stay with us, why would we bring her?” 
[33] PN testified that she followed much the same schedule in Canada that she had in 
Hong Kong. She would rise ar ound 5:30; FR would rise around 6:00 am. The rest of the 
family rose around 7:30 to 8:00. She said she would groom herself and then start 
working. She would iron clothes, prepare milk  for the children and pack their backpacks 
for the day. She would help them with their morning grooming and either take them to 
the restaurant or go get f ood from there to bring b ack to the hotel room.  
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
8 
 [34] Even though the hotel provided cleaning se rvice, it was only once per week. PN 
said she had a lot to do and that, whenever she was idle, MR would assign her more work. MR said she would deduct wages if she saw PN sitting down.  
[35] PN was only allowed to eat food with th e permission of MR. She was not allowed 
to eat the food in the fridge without perm ission. She was not allowed to go downstairs 
without permission. MR would threaten to report  PN to the employment agency if she ate 
too much. PN said she was usually hungry.  
[36] PN said that her usual day was to go out with the respondents and look for 
furniture for the new home. The family travel led together. They would usually eat lunch 
at a restaurant. PN would not  order food for herself. She had to feed th e respondents’ 
daughter before she could eat. Her food was apportioned to her by MR.  
[37] Sometimes the family went out for dinner at a restaurant or to the home of a 
relative of MR. MR apportioned PN’s food at th ese times as well. PN could only eat after 
the daughter ate. Two witnesses called by the respondents confirmed that, at such 
occasions, the conversation took place in Cant onese. PN does not understand Cantonese. 
The witnesses were called to show that the respondents treated PN like family. None of 
the witnesses knew her name. They knew her only as the maid.  
[38] I note that much of the ev idence of these witnesses was not helpful to the 
respondents. They knew only of a limited number of interactions. They were not aware of 
the relationship or the dynamics between the parties. In some respects, their evidence 
supports that of PN, where they agreed that MR  controlled the food that PN ate, that she 
was quiet and that she helped with the work, even when the family was out for dinner.  
[39] On their arrival in Canada, MR took PN to a bank to obtain Canadian money for 
her wages already earned in June. She re ceived $454.76, Canadian. That was the only 
money that PN received in Canada from the re spondents. FR claims that PN’s July wages 
were directly deposited in a bank account in the Philippines but PN has not been able to 
access the money despite concerted effort. There is no proof that the wages were 
deposited or that PN can access them.  
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
9 
 [40] PN was provided with a cell phone because she went with the children 
everywhere and was not familiar with the area.  She had a phone card that needed to be 
filled up for her to use it. Her phone had no da ta capability so she could not use programs 
to keep in touch with her friends and family overseas.  
[41] PN was not allowed to befriend anyone fr om the Philippines who worked at the 
hotel. If anyone spoke to her,  she would explain that she co uldn’t talk to them. She did 
not know anyone in Canada. She was to have he r day off, on Friday or Tuesday but not 
on Saturday or Sunday, which were days sh e might be able to meet up with other 
Filipinos. PN said that she had to finish her work before she could leave on her day off and she had to be back at the hotel by 9:00 pm.  
[42] In Canada, at times when MR was awa y, FR resumed his sexual assaults on PN 
by again forcing her to stroke his penis w ith lotion on her hand. Th is occurred about two 
times a week. She said one time the daughter was in the suite but FR locked himself and PN in the master bathroom and PN had to comply until sh e managed to leave when the 
daughter called out to her. Sh e said FR would often look at her while she was on the sofa, 
readying for sleep. He would leave the door open so  that he could be s ilent in the night if 
he came into the room where PN was.  
[43] One time, when PN was sleeping, she awoke early in the morning to find FR 
showing her his penis. PN said she covered he rself in her blanket and asked him to leave, 
which he did. He warned her that she would be  sent home if she told anyone and that she 
should be worried about her ch ildren. He said that if she told MR, there would be big 
trouble for her.  
[44] PN’s interaction with MR worsened in Canada. MR was always yelling at PN. 
She called her names like “garbage,” “stupid,” “evil. “ She was mad at PN every day. MR 
would laugh at PN because of how she looked. On ce, in front of her fr iends, MR said that 
PN looked like a witch. MR would make f un of PN in front of people, causing 
embarrassment and humiliation. PN  said it made her cry.  
[45] PN said that MR would laugh when the da ughter treated PN physically by kicking 
or punching her. The daughter then would no t listen to PN because her mother was 
laughing.  
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
10 
 [46] PN said she became more and more  depressed by her treatment by the 
respondents in Canada. She began to think th at if she didn’t get away she would fade 
away or die.  
[47] Once, PN said she accidentally hit the da ughter in the leg while closing a door in 
the bathroom. The daughter reported the inci dent to MR who threatened PN that she 
would lie to the authorities and claim that the daughter was hurt by PN.  
[48] There was another incident when the fam ily was at a mall. There were a number 
of packages that they had purchased and they  were waiting for FR to come with the car. 
MR got angry with PN and grabbed her arm so hard it caused a significant bruise.  
[49] When PN got in the car, she couldn’t hold back her tears. FR testified he knew she 
was crying but did not ask her what was wrong or what happen ed. Later, having lunch in 
a restaurant, MR said that PN should call th e police to complain about the assault but 
that, if she did, MR would cl aim that PN had injured the daughter. PN said she would 
never hurt the daughter, who was the same age as her own daughter.  
[50] The next day, FR again tried to have PN rub his penis with lotion. PN was feeling 
very depressed. She said she didn’t know what to do. If she stayed longer, she was afraid 
that they would accuse her of things she didn ’t do. If she left, she wouldn’t be able to 
continue to send money back to he r children or repay her debts.  
[51] She decided to walk away from the hotel.  
THE ESCAPE 
[52] The afternoon of August 18, 2013, PN ha d a chance to empty the garbage. She 
grabbed some things and walked away from  the hotel. She had no money, no passport, no 
extra clothing, no toiletries, and no eyeg lasses – nothing. She knew no one. This 
experience of escaping would become one of the most traumatic aspects of her 
relationship with the respondents .  
[53] She came across a hotel employee that  she knew was Filipino. She asked 
directions to the Philippine Consulate and she went on the skytrain to th e location. Upon 
arriving, she was told that it was not open because it was Sunday. She got some help from 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
11 
 a Filipino working in a store.  PN called the police from the store and talked to them. She 
said they told her that the jurisdiction for solving her pr oblem was in Hong Kong, not in 
Canada.  
[54] That evening, she went to stay with the woman from the store. She turned her 
phone off because she was afraid the authoritie s could find her and she did not want to 
involve the woman. PN was very conflicted. He r host told her that she should go back to 
her employer and that, if she was deported, she could never work abroad again. She 
thought her picture would be posted everywhere.  
[55] PN thought that she had no choice and should go back. She turned on her phone 
and sent a message to FR. FR had earlier re ported to the police that PN was missing.  
[56] Soon after she sent the message to FR, PN received a phone call from Cst. Chan 
from the RCMP. He told her not to worry and that he wanted to hear her side. They arranged for her to meet him.  
[57] There was a mix-up and she began to send and receive text messages with FR 
when she thought she was communicating with Cs t. Chan. When she said she would meet 
him at a Richmond mall, she thought she was communicating with Cs t. Chan, not FR.  
[58] When she met with Cst. Chan she told him some of what happened while living 
with the respondents. She was not immediat ely forthcoming about the sexual assaults. 
Cst. Chan said he wouldn’t make her go bac k. She told him that th e respondents still had 
her passport, her eyeglasses and other possession s. Later, Cst. Chan gave her the passport 
and a jacket. He gave her a voucher for a she lter but she didn’t know  where it was so she 
stayed at the mall.  
[59] A Filipino employee at the hotel where th e respondents stayed telephoned her. He 
told her that she should return to FR. He said that FR had as ked him to call her. He told 
her not to make any trouble. She said sh e didn’t want to hear from him again.  
[60] She also had text messages from the friend with whom she worked at the 
respondents’ in Hong Kong. Later, she learne d that her friend’s new employer was in 
contact with MR and said th at MR would give PN everyt hing that she needs if she 
decided to come back. Weeks later, they messaged each other about what MR had been 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
12 
 saying about PN; suggesting that PN was not  doing her job well. They made comments 
about how PN was no longer s upporting her children. That fr iend frequently asked the 
status of PN’s visa.  
[61] At the mall, PN began speaking with some  church people and told them some of 
her situation. They were very kind and arra nged to have her go to Surrey and stay at a 
small house in the compound of their church. Sh e was given food. Later, they took her to 
a house in Burnaby where she stayed for a fu rther few days. They also recommended that 
she go to Deborah’s Gate.  
[62] Deborah’s Gate is a specialized program of care that serves international and 
domestic women who have been trafficked into  situations of sexual exploitation or labour 
and who are in need of protective and re storative housing and healing. There is a 
confidential and secure location of Deborah ’s Gate which grants victims of human 
trafficking safety and refuge with access to  staff support 24 hours a day. Deborah’s Gate 
has capacity to house ten  survivors of human tr afficking for varying time periods. It 
offers a variety of in-house and community programs that teach basic life and living 
skills, coping mechanisms and trauma care, an d goal development. It takes referrals from 
all over Canada.  
[63] In her initial assessment, PN  referred to the sexual assa ults by FR and the physical 
assault by MR plus she describe d the conditions in which sh e was kept and the treatment 
she received. Deborah’s Gate immediately provi ded PN with some clothing and toiletries. 
They gave her a safe place to stay and heal. She accessed a counselor, once she was there for a while. She also met with people to he lp with her immigrati on status and met a 
lawyer who helped her file this complaint. She lived at Deborah’s Gate for almost one and a half years.  
[64] When she first came to Deborah’s Gate, the staff found that she was malnourished 
and sleep deprived. She would not make eye c ontact with staff or other residents. She 
often cried in her room. She would ask for pe rmission to do the most mundane things. It 
was clear to the staff person who testif ied that PN had been traumatized.  
[65] PN was able to access counseling at Deborah’s Gate. Her counseling sessions 
were with an expert in trau ma recovery who testified a bout her condition. PN suffered 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
13 
 from nightmares and flashbacks. She still ha s problems when she smells the lotion FR 
used in her sexual assaults. She can’t go to  the Richmond mall without it bringing back 
terrible memories.  
[66] FR cross-examined the counselor and asked how she knew whether PN was 
telling the truth. The counselor said that th e signs and symptoms were all there and it 
would be nearly impossible to feign them. I am satisfied that the counselor made an accurate assessment of the condition that PN was in after staying with the respondents.  
[67] I asked her how to different iate the harm PN suffered in Hong Kong and that in 
Canada. The counselor said that PN’s conditi on was more fragile because of what she 
endured in Hong Kong. She said that the terror arising from  the escape was a serious 
factor that added to the trauma inflicted while she was living w ith the respondents.  
[68] The counselor spoke of the indicators of  power and control that can exist. Her 
written opinion contained a “Power  & Control” diagram that she said it is a particularly 
helpful tool to understand the overall patter n of abusive and violen t behaviours that are 
used by someone to establish and maintain co ntrol over someone else. Very often one or 
more violent incidents are accompanied by an array of other types of abuse. These other types may be less easily identified yet firmly establish a pattern of intimidation and control in the relationship. T hose factors are set out below along with the evidence from 
the hearing of where those f actors may be present here: 
 
Type of Control Types of Associated 
Behaviour Evidence of PN’s Experience 
COERCION AND 
THREATS: 
  Making and/or carrying 
out threats to do 
something to  hurt her.  
 Threatening to leave her, 
commit suicide or report 
her to welfare.  
 Making her drop charges.  
 Making her do illegal 
things.  Through their counsel, after 
she left, the respondents have made threats towards PN. They used others to try to talk to her; telling her not to cause trouble. They also used Canadian authorities at the RCMP and Canada Border Services to impact PN’s future, after it was of no impact to them, whether or not she stayed in Canada.  
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
14 
 Type of Control Types of Associated 
Behaviour Evidence of PN’s Experience 
INTIMIDATION: 
  Making her afraid by 
using looks, actions, and gestures.  
 Smashing things.  
 Destroying her property.  
 Abusing pets. 
 Displaying weapons. MR would use these tactics 
when dealing with PN; there was at least one physical assault.   MR limited the amount of food that PN could consume.    
EMOTIONAL ABUSE:  Putting her down.  
 Making her feel bad about 
herself.  
 Calling her names.  
 Making her think she’s 
crazy. 
 Playing mind games.  
 Humiliating her.  
 Making her feel guilty. MR used these tactics when 
dealing with PN. She was regularly belittled and humiliated by MR.   FR made PN feel guilty about leaving her children behind.  Both put her in fear of her job.  
ISOLATION:  Controlling what she 
does; 
- who she sees and talks 
to, 
- what she reads, - where she goes.  
 
 Limiting her outside 
involvement.  
 Using jealousy to justify 
actions, PN had to ask permission to 
leave the hotel suite. While she could leave to go fetch breakfast from the buffet, she was expected to immediately return.  When the family traveled they did so together.    PN could not use her phone while at work. The only people she contacted lived outside Canada.  She was told not to speak with any Filipino who worked at the hotel.  When the respondents were visiting people or having dinner at a relative’s house, everyone spoke in Cantonese; a language unknown to PN. 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
15 
 Type of Control Types of Associated 
Behaviour Evidence of PN’s Experience 
Those associates and relatives 
did not know her name; she was merely the maid.  
MINIMIZING, DENYING AND BLAMING:  Making light of the abuse 
and not taking her concerns about it seriously.  
 Saying the abuse didn’t 
happen.  
 Shifting responsibility for 
abusive behaviour. Saying 
she caused it.  While their denial may be 
understandable from the point of view of the legal process at the Tribunal, I note that the respondents deny the behaviour occurred.  
 
USING CHILDREN: 
  Making her feel guilty 
about the children. Using 
the children to relay messages.  
 Using visitation to harass 
her.  
 Threatening to take the 
children away.  The respondents used both 
their own children and PN’s children to make her feel guilty.  
PN was worried about her 
children from the Hong Kong conversations she had with MR where MR claimed that they arranged to kill their enemies.  
ECONOMIC 
ABUSE:  Preventing her from 
getting or keeping a job.  
 Making her ask for 
money.  
 Giving her an allowance.  
 
 Taking her money.  
 Not letting her know 
about or have access to family income.  The respondents excelled at 
this way of exerting their power.  
Her contract contains a huge 
penalty if she does not comply. 
  PN was never paid for her 
work in Canada. Her passport was confiscated in the name of safekeeping.  
In addition, the working 
conditions and the amount of wages in the contract are in contravention of the law in BC. 
MALE PRIVILEGE  Treating her like a 
servant. PN was a servant in every way. 
FR used her for sexual pleasure 
as he wished and he threatened 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
16 
 Type of Control Types of Associated 
Behaviour Evidence of PN’s Experience 
 Making all the big 
decisions. Acting like the “master of the castle”. 
 Being the one to define 
men’s and women’s roles. her to keep it quiet.  
[69] While at Deborah’s Gate, PN slowly t ook back her personal agency and showed 
signs of recovery. She began to look at people in the ey e and her English started to 
improve. She took a training course for cooki ng, even though she could not be employed.  
[70] PN cannot work in Canada, nor does she qualify for Social Assistance. She still 
has to rely on the charity of others and still cannot support her children. She is still very ashamed of what happened which was descri bed as a common reaction to abuse.  
STEROTYPES AND PREJUDICES OF FILIPINO WORKERS, 
ESPECIALLY IN HONG KONG 
[71] Dr. Anna Guevarra is the Di rector, Asian American Studie s, at the University of 
Illinois at Chicago. She is an expert in im migrant labour; global ca rework (specifically 
domestic work); gender and migr ation; Filipino and Philippine  studies; race and ethnicity. 
An expert’s report from her was submitted into evidence. There was no objection from the respondents.  
[72] Dr. Guevarra’s report says that the stereotypes or prejudices that apply to Filipino 
domestic workers revolve around characteristic s that mark them as “docile” workers. 
That is, Filipino domestic workers are often marketed as obedient
, hardworking, Godfearing, loyal, honest, cooperative, and compliant. A t the same time, she says that they are 
also promoted as highly educated, skilled, and exhibiting a high tolerance for stressful 
conditions.  
[73] Dr. Guevarra says that, in general, Hong Kong employers typically stereotype 
foreign domestic workers, and especially Filipi no women, as carrying a particular kind of 
“modernized” sensibility that makes them morally suspect. Hong Kong employers are 
said to perceive Filipino dome stic workers’ sense of indepe ndence and readiness to leave 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
17 
 their families in the Philippines not as a si gn of filial piety, but instead, as a sign of 
financial desperation that could lead to acts of transgression. She notes that these 
perceived transgressions are often of sexual nature, such as seducing a male member of 
the household or engaging in si deline sex work for the purpo ses of permanent residence 
and financial security. Thus, the Filipino worker s are often seen as a threat to the female 
employer of the household. As a result, Filipino  domestic workers’ physical appearance 
or attractiveness, such as their clothing, ha irstyle, and physical adornments have all 
become routinely subject to  scrutiny and discipline.  
[74] The stereotypes or prejudices relate to factors like sex, race, place of origin, and 
age especially when it comes to domestic wo rk. In terms of their gender, or sex, the 
stereotypes and prejudices that govern how Filipino domestic workers are perceived often 
relate to them being women. As Filipino wo men, they are perceived to be “naturally 
inclined” to perform this kind of domestic care work, even as they are “naturally” or 
“culturally” inclined to exhib it morally suspect behaviours.  
[75] These views of Hong Kong employers, make s Filipino domestic workers “ideal,” 
highly sought-after, or employabl e workers, even as they are simultaneously perceived as 
a threat to the Hong Kong mora l order and social hierarchy.  
[76] Race and place of origin also have beari ng on how these stereotypes play out in 
the lives of domestic workers. Filipino wome n are perceived to come from a poor nation 
that is unable to provide any viable employ ment and has created a class of workers who 
are desperately trying to leave their countr y. Relatedly, the preference for Filipinos as 
care workers/domestic workers is often guide d by the perception that workers from the 
Philippines possess a work ethic and values rela ted to family, loyalty, and authority that 
translate to their docility in the workplace. Th ese characteristics are pitched as cultural (if 
not biological), and therefore, unique to the racial make-up of Filipinos. This is in addition to the racialization of Filipino workers as coming from a country with the 
linguistic advantage of Eng lish language proficiency.  
[77] Age also impacts the racialization and ge ndering of the stereotypes that construct 
Filipino women as ideal domestic workers. Foreign employers often correlate age to be a reflection of strength, health, docility, and efficiency and ther efore prefer to hire domestic 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
18 
 workers under the age of 35, w ith a preference for workers in  their 20s. Live-in domestic 
workers typically work anywhere from 14-18 hour work days and get one day off. The 
daily work schedule is fairly regimented with  specific tasks and deadlines that require a 
certain kind of efficiency. Domestic workers’ résumés, in the form of so-called “biodata” 
that is collected at the time of their recruitment, includes que stions about age, height, and 
weight and is accompanied by a full body phot ograph. PN’s application form contained 
much of this information.  
[78] Dr. Guevarra says that  it is widely documented, in the literature, that the 
stereotypes and prejudices contribute to or  exacerbate the exploitation or abuse of 
Filipino domestic workers. For example, labour brokers who essentially manage the recruitment and employment process for domes tic workers, act upon these stereotypes by 
specifically outlining the job requirements and by asking workers to agree to a range of 
behaviours that demonstrate their explicit submission to their employer’s authority.  
[79] These include those pertaining to time management, curfew hours on their days 
off, household regulations about phone usag e or visitors, food consumption, physical 
appearance with respect to clothing, hair, and make-up, personal hygiene, and willingness to move with their employers – all of whic h operate to structure a relationship based on 
rendering workers vulnerable to abusive employe rs as it creates a perception that they 
serve at the whim of their employers, and do not  have any recourse against them. That is, 
these regulations are fundamentally aimed not only at meeting employers’ expectations of their maids, but more importantly, protecti ng them from any potential complaints and 
challenges from workers. The employment ag ency sought similar answers from PN.  
[80] Dr. Guevarra says that these stereotype s and prejudices also empower employers 
to exercise their authority ove r their workers in ways that  contribute to the workers’ 
exploitation. Her report states: 
 First, employers do not expect Filipino domestic workers to complain or 
protest about any aspect of their j ob. Instead, employers expect them to 
submit to their authority unquestio ningly, as gratitude for their 
employment.  
 Second, employers often contain or isolate their employees in their 
household, largely because of their own fears that commingling with other 
workers will promote an awareness or  consciousness about domestic labor 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
19 
 rules and rights, and allow workers to  organize to improve their wages and 
living conditions.  
[81] As a result, she says that employers create conditions that seek to assert their 
authority and the subordinate position of the domestic workers by developing and 
enforcing regimented work schedules and en acting household rules that aim to control 
their employees’ behaviours, bodies, and lives.  
[82] In answering why Filipino domestic work ers are likely to endure poor working 
conditions, Dr. Guevarra says th at the first likely r eason is that they are in debt after 
paying  for the exorbitant placement fees recruitment agencies in the Philippines charge, 
in addition to the cost of training and travel. Also, most  domestic workers take out 
multiple loans, often from lending agencies that charge inflated interest rates. Therefore, 
workers end up accruing a huge financial debt , which often takes years to repay. 
Therefore, most workers cannot afford to lo se their job and be rendered unable to repay 
their debt.  
[83] Second, she says that most Filipi no domestic workers pursue overseas 
employment in order to support their fam ilies’ livelihood, including education for their 
siblings and/or children. A large proportion (often half) of the monthly earnings of 
domestic workers are remitted to their fa milies every month, directly supporting their 
families; often sustaining the daily living requirements of a multi- generational household, 
enabling the purchase of homes and cars, subs idizing college or private school education 
of their siblings and children, or providi ng the capital for starting a new business.  
[84] From 1985 onward, these remittances have contributed a greater share of the 
Philippines’ Gross Domestic Product. Today, she says, these remittances represent at least 10% of the country’s GDP. Thus, some wo rkers more aptly refer to themselves as 
“heroes” to their families. And as such, these families depend heavily, and sometimes solely, on the income derived from the overs eas work of Filipino domestic workers who 
must often endure poor working conditions in order to fulfill this  familial obligation.  
[85] Additionally, she says that a domestic work er’s familial status such as that of 
being a mother plays an important role in exacerbating the workers’ dependence on her 
income due to the cost attached to raising a child - basic living re quirements such as food, 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
20 
 clothing, and housing are quite high. Many of them desire to put their children through 
private schools, which they believe will provide a better education and therefore a greater likelihood of a good job.  
[86] Finally, she says that most domestic  workers pursue overseas employment and 
endure their poor working conditions because there are simply no viable jobs in the 
Philippines that would provide the kind of earnings that are remotely comparable to what they would earn as domestic workers abroa d. A typical monthly wa ge of a domestic 
worker in the Philippines ranges anywhere between 2,000-5,000 Philippine pesos a month ($45-$113 US Dollars) in a country with a steady unem ployment rate of 6% and 
an underemployment of 18.7% according to the 2014 census figures.  
IV ANALYSIS AND DECISION 
Positions of the Parties 
[87] PN claims that she was discriminated against on the basis of the number of 
protected characteristics making up the ster eotypes and prejudices of Filipino workers. 
She says that she was sexually harassed and exploited because of this and she has been 
harmed.  
[88] FR said that they hired PN and treated her like a member of the family and they 
didn’t discriminate against her. FR submitted th at what PN said did not happen but he did 
not point to any evidence that contradicted her. He said they had no choice about the 
small space in which they lived and concluded that her real purpose in coming to Canada 
was to run away. He reiterated that  she has breached her contract.  
DISCRIMINATION 
[89] The requirements of a prima facie case of discrimination were affirmed by the 
Supreme Court of Canada in Moore v. British Columbia, 2012 SCC 61. To demonstrate 
prima facie discrimination, complainants must show  that they have a characteristic 
protected from discrimination; that they have  experienced an adverse impact; and that the 
protected characteristic was a fact or in the adverse impact. Once a prima facie case has 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
21 
 been established, the burden shifts to the res pondent to disprove or justify the conduct or 
practice.  
Protected Characteristics 
[90]  In Radek v. Henderson Development (Canada) Ltd., 2005 BCHRT 302, the 
Tribunal looked at the effect of multiple protected grounds in tersecting. In that case, as 
here, the allegation of discrimination incl uded race, colour, and ancestry. Here, the 
grounds of family status, sex and age are added. In Radek  (at para 463) the Tribunal held 
that the grounds cannot be separated out and parsed on an individual basis. The complainant is an integrated person, with a number of characterist ics, some of them 
protected under the Code , all of which are alleged to have been factors in how she was 
treated. That is also the case here. As can be  seen from the opinion of Dr. Guevarra, the 
combination is what the labour broke rs promote to their clients.  
[91] The Tribunal, in Radek,  noted that the interrelationship between intersecting 
grounds of discrimination is sometimes describe d as “intersectionali ty”, and showed how 
that concept had been discussed in a number of decisions, including: Morrison v. 
Motsewetsho  (2003), 48 C. H. R. R. D/51 (H. R. T. of Ont.); Comeau v. Cote,  [2003] 
BCHRT 32; and Baylis-Flannery v. DeWilde (No. 2)  (2003), 48 C. H. R. R. D/197 (Ont. 
H .  R .  T .  ) .  A s  d e s c r i b e d  i n  Baylis-Flannery , “[a]n intersecti onal analysis of 
discrimination is a fact-driven exercise that  assesses the disparate relevancy and impact 
of the possibility of compound di scrimination. “ (at para. 143. )  
[92] Applying this analysis, I c onclude that PN has many ch aracteristics protected by 
the Code . She is a young mother from the Philippi nes and these protected characteristics 
are age, sex, family status, colour, ancestr y and place of origin. Discrimination under any 
of these characteristics could amount  to a violation of s. 13 of the Code , as is claimed 
here.  
Adverse Impact - Sexual Harassment 
[93] PN must establish that she has suffered an adverse impact from the 
discrimination. One aspect of the adverse imp act claimed is the sexual assaults on her by 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
22 
 FR that amount to sexual harassment of her by her employer. The law surrounding an 
allegation of sexual harassment was first set out by the Supreme Court of Canada in Janzen v. Platy Enterprises Ltd. ,  [1989] 1 S. C. R. 1252, where it found that sexual 
harassment amounted to discrimination on the basis of sex. Sexual harassment is defined as unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature that detrimentally affects the work environment 
or leads to adverse job-related consequen ces for the victims of the harassment.  
[94] When sexual harassment occurs in the workplace, it is an abuse of both economic 
and sexual power. Sexual harassment is a de meaning practice, one that constitutes a 
profound affront to the dignity of the employ ees forced to endure it. By requiring an 
employee to contend with unwelcome sexual actions or explicit sexual demands, sexual 
harassment in the workplace attacks the dignity and self-respect of the victim, both as an 
employee and as a human being. (at para 56) 
[95] PN testified in a clear and straightforw ard way, not unmoved by the emotional toll 
involved in repeating her desc ription of the events. In cross-examination, FR asked PN 
why she didn’t yell out in their small suite and have him caught. She testified that he had 
told her to keep it quiet and she obeyed. In addition, I note that, as discussed below, her 
relationship with MR was one where MR wa s humiliating and degrading her so she could 
not expect any help from MR if she were to overtly complain about FR’s actions.  
[96] Additionally, FR asked PN why she agreed to come to Canada, if he was sexually 
harassing her. PN said that, before she follo wed them, they convinced her that she would 
have a good future. They said it would help  PN’s daughters. An a dded consideration for 
PN was that the respondents’ childre n chose her to come to Canada.  
[97] I do not question the veracity of PN’s evid ence that the sexual assaults occurred. 
This is particularly so after noting that FR  did not cross-examine PN on her evidence 
about the sexual assaults  and considering that, in FR’s testimony, he did not deny that he 
engaged in the sexual assaults.  
[98] I thus have no difficulty finding that FR repeatedly sexually harassed PN. This 
harassment amounted to a significant affront to PN ’s dignity and feelings  of self-worth. It 
underscored her general powerlessness in the relationship. The harassment was regular 
and she was unable to avoid it.  
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
23 
 Adverse Impact - Exploitation 
[99] The other type of adverse impact that PN  claims concerns her exploitation by the 
respondents in her employment. She points to  Canadian regulations for the employment 
of in-home caregivers which set out the following requirements: 
Employers must not under any circum stance require a caregiver (either 
lower-skilled or higher-skilled ) to live in their home.  
However, if an employer and foreign care-giver decide that a live-in 
arrangement is the most suitable, for the needs of the person requiring care 
or to assist the TFW, there are certain criteria that must be met. Specifically, employers must ensure the:  
 accommodation is being provided in the home of the person 
receiving care; 
 accommodation is a private and furnished bedroom; 
 bedroom door has a lock a nd safety bolt on the inside; 
 bedroom meets the municipal bu ilding requirements and the 
provincial/territorial he alth standards; and 
 foreign caregiver is NOT charged room and board for the 
accommodations, as per the policy, under the TFWP.  
[100]  PN argues, and I accept, that the responde nts did not follow these requirements 
and that itself amounts to an adverse impact. PN  had no privacy or sp ace in which to be 
alone plus her space was invaded by FR. In f act, it appears as if the respondents may not 
have been forthright with the Canadian aut horities when arranging for PN to travel with 
them to Canada as what was issued to her was a visitor’s visa. I do not know what, if anything, that FR told Canadian authorities about the pay that PN would receive, but it 
did not meet British Columbia standards.  
[101]  PN was a virtual slave. She could not go anywhere or do anything without 
permission. She could not go out on her own or speak to people in her own language, 
even though there were people around the hotel with whom she could ha ve struck up such 
a friendship. While she was allowed to sleep, it was in betw een the respondents’ 
bedrooms so she was virtually on call 24/7. Sh e was frequently humiliated and demeaned 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
24 
 by MR who threatened her, called her names an d threatened to deduct wages were she to 
sit down while at work.  
Nexus 
[102]  Based both on the evidence of FR and the opinion of Dr. Guevarra, I find that the 
protected characteristics of  PN were factors in her treatment by the respondents. 
Certainly, the repeated sexual assaults were because PN is a woman. The threats that 
worked to keep her quiet were  due to her family status.  
[103]  Many of the conditions PN was forced to  endure in Canada amount to adverse 
impact based on the protected characteristics identified in the complaint. These characteristics were a key factor in many as pects of her employment, as described in the 
expert report of Dr. Guevarra.  
[104]  PN is a young mother from the Philippine s without supports in Canada. This gave 
rise to a situation where it was possible to take  unfair advantage of her. The way that MR 
treated her and the expectations  of PN working all the time at the beck and call of the 
respondents have their roots in her hiring fr om the Philippines and the factors emphasized 
of youth, hard work and unlikeliness to compla in, which are characteristics attributed to 
Filipino workers by stereotype and prejudice.  
[105]  I also saw that FR was dismissive of PN ’s claims. He was arrogant and presented 
an attitude of entitlement in virtually ev ery aspect of his conduct respecting the 
complaint, from the pre-hearing conferences  to his conduct in the hearing itself. He 
seemed to demonstrate anger that PN  dared to leave his employment.  
[106]  I specifically asked FR why he cared what  happened to PN, now that she had left 
him. The only answer that he gave was that  what PN did was illegal. When I asked again 
why he cared about that when he didn’t even  live in Canada, he repeated that it was 
illegal and that he cared about disadvant aged people. His responses are without 
credibility. After consid eration, it seems to me that PN ’s conduct and testimony was most 
consistent with FR holding a view of PN as his property that had been stolen.  
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
25 
 Conclusion 
[107]  I find that the respondents breached s. 13 of the Code  with their treatment of PN 
for the almost six weeks that she was in Canada as their employee. Virtually every aspect of her employment, including the cont ract, was exploitation that amounts to 
discrimination.  
RETALIATION 
Law 
[108]  Section 43 of the Code  provides: 
A person must not evict, discharge, suspend, expel, intimidate, coerce, 
impose any pecuniary or other penalty  on, deny a right or benefit to or 
otherwise discriminate against a person because that person complains or is named in a complaint, gives evidence or otherwise assists in a complaint or other proceeding under this Code.  
[109]  The elements which a complaint alleging retaliation must establish are set out in 
Bissonnette v. School Dist rict No. 62 and Frizzell , 2006 BCHRT 447 at para. 19: 
In order to establish a co mplaint under s. 43 of the Code , a complainant 
must establish: 
 That a previous complaint has been made under the Code  and that 
the respondent was awar e of the complaint: Cariboo Chevrolet 
Pontiac Buick GMC Ltd. v. Becker , 2006 BCSC 43, at paras. 4755; 
 That the respondent engaged in or threatened to engage in 
retaliatory conduct; and 
 That the respondent intended to engage in that conduct or can 
reasonably have been perceived to have engaged in that conduct in 
retaliation, with the element of  reasonable perception being 
assessed from the point of view  of a reasonable complainant: 
Talkkari v. City of Burnaby and others , 2005 BCHRT 68, at paras. 
42-49; Mathison v. Musqueam I ndian Band and Easton (No. 3) , 
2006 BCHRT 429, (at para. 22. )  
[110]  Concerning whether threat of a lawsuit amounts to retaliation, in Steele v. 
Aishwarya Investments Ltd., 2014 BCHRT 192, the Tribunal concluded that: 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
26 
 My finding is not intended to preclude  all civil actions or proceedings 
undertaken before other administrative tribunals to enforce rights against a 
person who has made a human rights complaint. People, including respondents, are entitled to enforce their rights agai nst human rights 
complainants as long as they are acting in good faith and in a bona fide 
manner: see Gichuru  [v.	Pallai,	2012	BCHRT	327].  It is actions allegedly 
motivated by malice or aris ing out of a desire to punish that must not be 
obscured from Tribunal scrutiny by ab solute privilege. (para. 295) 
Facts 
[111]  Writing to PN’s counsel in the human ri ghts complaint, FR’s lawyers in Hong 
Kong said that the respondents were ma king a demand that PN repay the 13,600 Hong 
Kong Dollars that was set out in her agreem ent with them concerning her accompanying 
them to Canada. The letter commences with  a statement linking it directly to the 
complaint at the Tribunal and claiming that she has produced “various unsustainable allegations without any proper evidence. “  
[112]  The lawyers referred to the contract an d affirmed that, pursuant to it, PN is 
obligated to provide the agreed service of  the domestic helper to their clients as 
prescribed. She was also warned that they  would take legal ac tion in Hong Kong to 
recover the airfare and visa fee. The respondents say simply  that this matter should be 
judged by the law of Hong Kong and should not constitute as a thre at or retaliation.  
[113]  However, the letter was widely circul ated. The reason was not explained but, 
when one looks at the recipien ts, I can only conclude that it  is an attempt to undermine 
PN with those recipients. The letter claims  that PN made misrepresentations in the 
complaint seemingly trying to suggest that th e complaint is not valid and influence the 
copied parties. In the respons e to the retaliation complaint,  the respondents say only that: 
“The action of providing a copy to third parties is our rights and freedoms. “ 
[114]  In the application to dismiss the retali ation complaint that was filed, but never 
argued, the respondents say that 
the Tribunal does not have jurisdiction because the 
complaint is about conduct outside of BC. Ho wever, while the letter was written outside 
of BC about an action that could be filed in Hong Kong, it was sent to PN’s counsel in 
BC and four of the seven partie s copied were Canadian; three in BC. I find that this is a 
sufficient connection to BC to provide the Tr ibunal jurisdiction ove r these allegations.  
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
27 
 Findings Regarding Retaliation 
[115]  At the time of the respondents’ counsel’s letter, the Human Rights complaint had 
been filed. It was known to and mentioned by the respondents’ counsel in their letter. The 
letter threatened to take act ion against PN in the Hong Kong courts, both for breach of 
contract and for defamation. Th e threats contained in the le tter were intentional and 
repeated in the course of these proceedings.  
[116]  The provision of copies of th e letter to entities with no thing at stake in the human 
rights complaint amounts to what I find is an attempt to undermine PN in Canada because 
she filed the human rights complaint. Thus, while respondents are enti tled to enforce their 
rights against human rights complainants as long  as they are acting in good faith and in a 
bona fide manner, I do not find that the re spondents were acting so here.  
[117]  I conclude that the letter amounted to  retaliation for filing her complaint.  
V REMEDY 
[118]  Section 37 of the Code  gives the Tribunal jurisdiction to award damages after a 
finding of a breach of the Code . Section 37(2) provides: 
(2) If the member or panel determines that the complaint is justified, the 
member or panel 
(a) must order the person that contravened this Code to cease the 
contravention and to refrain from committing the same or a similar contravention, 
(b) may make a declaratory order that the conduct complained of, or 
similar conduct, is discrimina tion contrary to this Code, 
… (d) if the person discriminated against is a party to the complaint, or 
is an identifiable member of a group or class on behalf of which a complaint is filed, may order the person that contravened this Code to do one or more of the following: 
(i) make available to the person discriminated agai nst the right, 
opportunity or privilege that, in the opinion of the member or 
panel, the person was denied  contrary to this Code; 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
28 
 (ii) compensate the person discriminated against for all, or a part 
the member or panel determines, of any wages or salary lost, or expenses incurred, by the contravention; 
(iii) pay to the person discriminated against an amount that the 
member or panel considers appr opriate to compensate that 
person for injury to di gnity, feelings and self  respect or to any 
of them.  
[119]  I find that the conduct of the respondents complained of by PN is discrimination 
and contrary to s. 13 of the Code . I order that the respondents cease the contravention of 
the Code  and refrain from committing the same or a similar contravention.  
DAMAGES FOR WAGES  
[120]  PN claims damages for wages she earned while she was working for the 
respondents in Canada as well as prospective wages that she would have earned had the discriminatory treatment not caused her to flee from the responde nts’ hotel room.  
[121]  Given my conclusion that the contract  itself was explo itation amounting to 
discrimination, I cannot construe this part of  my decision as enforcing the contract of 
employment. However, as the respondents rece ived the benefit of work from PN while 
they were exploiting her, I am persuaded that  it is appropriate to award her compensation 
for wages that would have been paid absent  discrimination, that is, meeting minimum 
standards. The time frame for this compensation is from July 11 to August 17 for the 
hours of 6:00 am to 10:00 pm every day exce pt her days off on Friday, when she is 
entitled to be paid for 6:00 am to 10:00 am and from 8:00 pm to 10:00 pm. On August 18, 
she is entitled to be paid for the hours of 6:00 am to 2:00 pm.  
[122]  The employment contract under which th e parties conducted themselves in Hong 
Kong does not meet the minimum requirement set out in the Employment Standards Act . 
Section 4 of the Employment Standards Act  provides that, except with a collective 
agreement, parties cannot contract out of th e minimum standards set in the legislation.  
[123]   Accordingly, I shall calculate the wage s owed by reference to BC requirements. 
Minimum wage for the first eight hours wo rked is $10. 25. For the next four hours the 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
29 
 pay is at 1. 5 times the wage rate or $15. 38. For hours more than twelve, the rate is two 
times the base rate, or $20. 50 per hour.  
No. of days 8 hours 
@ $10. 25/hour No. of days 4 hours 
@ $15. 38/hour No. of days 4 hours 
@ $20. 50/hour No. of days off 5. 5 
hours @ $10. 25 
33 32 32 6 
$2,706. 00 $1,968. 64 $2,624. 00 $338. 25
Total $5,866. 89
[124]  With respect to any possible set-off for room and board, I decline to do so, given 
that PN had to sleep on a couch with no privacy  and given that I accept that the amount of 
food she received was inadequate, resulting in her appearing malnourished when she 
arrived at Deborah’s Gate and for a time thereafter until her food consumption more 
appropriately matched her body we ight. Applying the foregoing formula, I conclude that 
PN is entitled to $ $5,866. 89 for wages she should have earned wh ile the respondents 
were treating her di scriminatorily.  
[125]  PN also seeks prospective wages that she would have earned had she not been 
forced to flee the respondents. Again, such  a calculation is generally based on the amount 
that a complainant would have earned had the discrimination not occurred. This figure is 
reduced by any mitigation that a compla inant earns or should have earned.  
[126]  The difficulty in the circumstances of this case is that any on-going working 
relationship absent the discri mination would be a complete fiction. The contract and 
relationship of employment was exploitative a nd discriminatory. Abse nt those aspects of 
the employment contract and relationship, I do not believe the respondents would have 
continued to employ PN. Compensation in thes e circumstances would either, in effect, 
enforce a discriminatory contract, or be based on an impossible scenario.  
[127]  I also cannot overcome the fact that PN is  not entitled to work in Canada. She had 
a visitor’s visa that expired six weeks after she fled. I find that PN  has not established a 
basis for compensation for wage loss after she fled the hotel and I de cline to award them. 
I do, however, take into account PN’s lack of  income and lack of ability to earn an 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
30 
 income in assessing the impact of the disc rimination on her dignity, feelings and selfrespect.  
A. COMPENSATION FOR IN JURY TO DIGNITY  
[128]  PN claims compensation for injury to dignity, feelings and self-respect for the 
discrimination and the retaliation. As the comp laints of discrimination and retaliation 
have been joined, I will award compensation for injury to dignity feelings and selfrespect in a global amount for both complaints.  
[129]  The quantum of such an award requires an assessment of the impact of the 
discriminatory conduct on the complainant. In Torres v. Royalty Kitchenware Ltd.  (1982), 
3 C. H. R. R. D/858 at D/873 para. 7758 (Ont. Bd. Inq. ), following factors were 
identified to be considered in determining the appropriate quantum of damages in sexual 
harassment cases: 
(i) the nature of the harassment; that is, was it simply verbal or was it 
physical as well; 
(ii) the degree of aggressiveness and physical contact in the harassment; 
(iii) the ongoing nature; that is, the time period of harassment; (iv) the frequency of the harassment; (v) the age of the victim; (vi) the vulnerability of the victim; (vii) the psychological impact of  the harassment upon the victim.  
[130]  I note that Torres  has frequently been cited and followed by the Tribunal. See, for 
example: Behm v. 6-4-1 Holdings and others , 2008 BCHRT 286;  Soroka v. Dave’s 
Custom Metal Works Ltd . , 2010 BCHRT 239; Young v. Petres,  2011 BCHRT 38.  
[131]  In Harrison v. Nixon Safety Consulting and others (No. 3) , 2008 BCHRT 462, the 
Tribunal awarded $15,000 for sexual harassme nt. In another harassment case, the 
Tribunal awarded $25,000: Ratzlaff v. Marpaul Construction Ltd. ,  2010 BCHRT 13. In 
Senyk v. WFG Agency Network (No. 2) , 2008 BCHRT 376, the Tribunal awarded $35,000 
for injury to dignity, feelings and self-resp ect for the terminati on of employment. The 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
31 
 Tribunal’s highest award to date is $75,000, See: Kelly v. University of British Columbia , 
2013 BCHRT 302.  
[132]  In this case, the impact of the discriminatory conduct can be seen to be severe. 
Although it took place over six weeks, the impact was long-lasting and impacts the complainant until now.  
[133]  While working for the respondents, PN wa s exploited. She had to perform sexual 
acts at the whim and insistence of her empl oyer, she was humiliated and degraded by her 
other employer, and she was even made fun of by the children who were in her care. She 
was isolated, underfed and treated like sh e was sub-human; all because she was a young 
Filipino mother who needed the job to take ca re of her own children. I would like to think 
that this behaviour does not o ccur in BC. However, where it comes to the attention of the 
Tribunal, damages will be awar ded to attempt to put the complainant in a position that 
she would have been in w ithout the discrimination.  
[134]  PN’s counsellor testified that she suffered symptoms consistent with posttraumatic stress disorder. She has nightmares a nd flashbacks still. She had to flee with 
nothing; not clothes, not mone y, not friends. She had to fend for herself and was lucky 
enough to find refuge in an institution for vi ctims of human trafficking. It is hard to 
imagine the bravery and determination that she required to overcome her treatment at the 
hands of the respondents.  
[135]  PN had to rely on the generosity of stra ngers to feed and clothe herself. She 
cannot work in Canada, she cannot get be nefits from the government, and she was 
threatened with a lawsuit. Her untenable situation was l ongstanding (from August 2013 to 
today) and is still fraught with uncertainty. All because she, understandably, couldn’t 
take, any longer, the discrimi nation by the respondents.  
[136]  There are many other actions by FR that served as a constant  reminder of FR’s 
effort to assert control over PN. This served to make her time after she left their residence 
even more difficult. These actions by FR impacted PN and were: 
 seeking to have others notify PN th at she should not cause trouble,  
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)
 
32 
  having others tell PN that she should take  money from him and return to Asia, 
and 
 lobbying to have her deported from Canada. 
[137]  This case presents the factors that should result in an award at  a high level. I am 
satisfied that the award in this ca se should be higher because, like in Ratzlaff , there was 
significant physical harassment and the fact that it occurred when she was isolated and 
intimidated. The damages must also be increased because of the severe stress and the acutely vulnerable situation PN was in due  to, and following, the discrimination. I am 
satisfied that, in all the circumstances of this  case, an award for both of her complaints of 
$50,000 for injury to dignity, feelings and self-respect is appropriate.  
B. INTEREST 
[138]  PN is also entitled to receive interest  on the lost wages from August 18, 2013 until 
the time they are paid and on the damages for injury to dignity from the date of this 
decision until they are paid.  
VI SUMMARY 
[139]  I find that the conduct of the respondents complained of by PN is discrimination 
and contrary to s. 13 of the Code . I order that the respondents: 
 cease the contravention of the Code  and refrain from committing the 
same or a similar contravention;  
 pay to PN  $5,866.89 for lost wages; 
 pay to PN $50,000.00 as damages for in jury to dignity, feelings and 
self-respect arising out of both complaints;  
 pay to PN interest on the lost wages from August 18, 2013 until the 
time they are paid and on the damages for injury to dignity from the date of this decision until paid.  
 
2015 BCHRT 60 (CanLII)