[1] In 2008, Mobility World Wireless Specialis ts Inc. (“Mobility”), owned by Trevor 
Tremblay and Trent Butcher, operated six st ores selling cellular phones, accessories, and 
telephone plans.  Mobility’s head office was in Kelowna. 
[2] In June 2007, Mobility hired Ralph Robnik as a consultant at its head office.  In 
March 2008, he was promoted to the position of  district manager of Mobility’s stores. 
[3] In February 2008, Anna-Leigh Tyler (Be ddington) was hired as manager at 
Mobility’s Williams Lake store (“the Store” ).  Mr. Robnik was her direct supervisor. 
[4] As a result of a series of circumstances, Ms. Tyler had a friend hand in her keys to 
the Store in June 2008, which M obility viewed as a resignation. 
[5] Mr. Butcher died before the hearing. 
[6] As amended, Ms. Tyler’s complaint a lleges that Mr. Robnik and Mobility 
(together the “Respondents”) discriminated agai nst her regarding employment because of 
her sex, contrary to s. 13 of the Human Rights Code .  The complaint is one of sexual 
harassment. 
[7] Mr. Robnik denies the allegations. 
[8] In addition to the testimony of Ms. Tyler and Mr. Robnik, who were present at the 
hearing, Mr. Tremblay gave evidence over the telephone. 
2. The Complainant’s Case 
[9] Ms. Tyler gave evidence about several incidents involving Mr . Robnik, as set out 
below. 
[10] Before meeting Mr. Robnik at the Store, Ms. Tyler spoke to him on the telephone.  
On one occasion, when she told him she would have to call him back, he responded:  “I 
hope so, I enjoy hearing your voice.”  Five minutes later, when she called him, he said:  “Oh Anna, you took too long.” 
[11] In mid-March, 2008, Mr. Robnik went to the St ore to provide trai ning.  It was the 
first time he and Ms. Tyler met.   She testified that, on the se cond day he was at the Store, 
2010 BCHRT 192 (CanLII)
2 he told her where he was staying and offered her his hote l room card.  She felt sick.  She 
told Mr. Robnik that she was in a serious relationship with someone. 
[12] That same day, several hours later, Mr. Robnik asked Ms. Tyler if she was sure 
she was not interested in his hotel  card.  Ms. Tyler was very upset. 
[13] One evening, Mr. Robnik telephoned Ms. Tyler’s home.  He asked what she was 
doing and if she would like to come to his hot el, saying that he was bored.  She told him 
that she was going to bed.  Mr. Robnik respond ed that he would be up until midnight if 
she changed her mind. 
[14] Ms. Tyler testified about anot her incident that occurred at the Store.  Mr. Robnik, 
while asking if she was wearing pantyhose because her legs looke d so smooth, touched 
her leg.  She asked to go home early, saying she felt ill. 
[15] On one occasion, while she was at the St ore, after discussi ng business related 
matters with Mr. Robnik on the telephone, he asked if she was wearing something “hot”. 
[16] On another occasion, at the Store, Mr . Robnik came up behind Ms. Tyler and 
bumped into her so hard that she lost her f ooting.  He put both hands on either side of her 
waist, and pulled her back towards him.  She told him that he had to stop what he was 
doing.  Ms. Tyler felt sick to her stomach, and tried to avoid Mr. Robnik for the rest of the day. 
[17] Ms. Robnik testified that, at the end of March or beginning of April, she 
telephoned Mr. Butcher and told  him she wanted to speak to him about Mr. Robnik.  He 
asked her to come to Salmon Arm to speak to him in person, which she did, telling him about what had been happening with Mr. Robni k.  Ms. Tyler testified that Mr. Butcher 
told her he would speak to Mr . Tremblay about Mr. Robnik. 
[18] At the end of May, Ms. Tyler, Mr. Butche r and Mr. Tremblay participated in a 
conference call.  Ms. Tyler’s evidence was that  Mr. Butcher told her that there were theft 
allegations against her from some of her co-workers.  According to Ms. Tyler, Mr. 
Butcher then asked Mr. Tremblay if he t hought the allegations had anything to do with 
the concerns Ms. Tyler had raised about Mr . Robnik; Mr. Tremblay responded that he 
had no opinion at that time. 
2010 BCHRT 192 (CanLII)
3 [19] Ms. Tyler stated that, on June 7, Mr. Tremblay told her that she needed to leave 
the Store while the investigation took place, th at she should not call the Store or speak to 
anyone there, and that she would be on paid leave until the conclusion of the 
investigation.  Ms. Tyler said that she had a friend hand in her key to  the Store as she did 
not think she should have it in her possession under the circumstances.  By doing so, she 
did not intend to resign. 
[20] Mobility’s view was that Ms. Tyler had resigned.  As a result, Mobility did not 
contact Ms. Tyler to hear her side of the story or to inform her of its conclusion. 
[21] Ms. Tyler testified that, the night be fore the hearing began, Mr. Tremblay 
telephoned her.  He told her that there was no benefit for her to pr oceed against Mobility 
as it had been dissolved.  He asked her to drop her complaint agai nst Mobility, saying 
that, if she did not, he would contact the police and hand over documents relating to the 
theft allegations against her.   When Ms. Ty ler inquired why she had not been paid while 
she was on leave, Mr. Tremblay asked why he should pay someone who was stealing.  
When she denied stealing from the Store, Mr. Tremblay said that he was relying on what 
Mr. Robnik had told him. 
[22] In her complaint, Ms. Tyler ascribed date s to her allegations.  In Section E, she 
alleged that Mr. Robnik’s invitation to his hot el room, including his call to her home, and 
his comment about her legs, occurred on specific dates in March 2008.  In crossexamination, after looking at Mr. Robnik’s monthly credit card statements (which 
indicated that he was in Westbank and Ch illiwack on March 13, and in Williams Lake 
from March 17-21), Ms. Tyler acknowledged that her dates were incorr ect.  Also, in her 
complaint, Ms. Tyler indicated that certain incidents had occurred on dates in April and 
May.  Again, in cross-examination, she ag reed that these dates were incorrect. 
[23] Ms. Tyler’s evidence was that, while she tried to remember the exact dates, she 
was upset when she filed her complaint.  Sh e denied fabricating her allegations, saying 
the fact that she was incorrect on the dates di d not mean that the incidents did not take 
place. 
[24] When asked whether Mr. Robnik showed her his hotel room card in response to a 
query from her about where he was staying, Ms. Tyler responded:  “Absolutely not.” 
2010 BCHRT 192 (CanLII)
4 [25] Ms. Tyler was questioned about her eviden ce regarding Mr. Robni k’s evening call 
to her home, which she testified had occurred  in March.  She was shown his hotel bill 
from March 17-22, which showed no telephone ch arges, and his cell phone charges from 
February 21 to March 20, which showed no telephone call to her home number in the 
evening. 
[26] Ms. Tyler responded that, wh ile she may have had the wrong date, she was certain 
of the time of day because she was putting her son to bed.  She stated that Mr. Robnik’s 
telephone records after Ma rch 20 had not been disclosed.  Further, she testified that she 
had telephoned the hotel where he had stayed, and been told that there was no charge for 
local calls, so they would not a ppear on the statement of account. 
3. Mr. Robnik’s Case 
[27] Mr. Robnik testified that he was in Williams  Lake for three periods of time during 
Ms. Tyler’s employment:  Marc h 17-21, when he assisted he r in organizing the Store; 
April 8-11, when he assisted her in training a new employee;  and June 5-11, when he was 
investigating inconsistencies in deposit amounts, phone accounts, and sales transactions. 
[28] Mr. Robnik denied all allegations of sexual harassment.  He testified that he never 
said anything inappropriate to Ms. Tyler, invited her to his hotel room, called her at 
home, or touched her leg.  He gave evidence that, in response to Ms. Tyler asking him 
where he was staying, he pulled out his hotel room card to refresh his memory.  He also 
said that, while he may have accidentally bumpe d into her at the Stor e as the area where 
the tills were located was very crampe d, he never pulled her towards his body.   
[29] In his written respons e, Mr. Robnik wrote: 
Ms. Tyler indicated that I rubbed her leg while at wor k.  I recall th at specific 
contact with Ms. Tyler’s leg.  It wa s completely accidental.  The work 
environment in the store is cramped at  best and when you are in ‘work mode’ 
it is easy for anyone to make contact w ith one another in th at store.  Other 
employees will confirm that. 
Ms. Tyler said that I commented that ‘s he had the sexiest legs and rubbed his 
hand on mine and asked if was wear ing pantyhose because they were 
smooth.’  I never made those comments. 
... 
2010 BCHRT 192 (CanLII)
5 I did arrive at the Store to help with training.  I remember bumping into Ms. 
Tyler because of the crampe d space at the store and I did apologize as it was 
totally unintentional.  I never grabbe d her and pulled her back against me. 
[30] Mr. Robnik’s evidence regarding these written statements was that he 
remembered some bumping contact in the St ore with Ms. Tyler because of the cramped 
work space, but not any specific incidences. 
[31] Mr. Robnik stated that he was very fa miliar with Mobility’s sexual harassment 
policy, which he had assisted putting togeth er from examples he found on the internet. 
[32] Mr. Robnik’s evidence was that he neve r noticed any change in Ms. Tyler’s 
demeanour or any indication that she was uncomfortable in his presence. 
[33] Mr. Robnik testified that, after his investig ation at the Store in June, he could not 
come to a conclusion.  He took the information he had gathered back to Mobility’s head 
office in Kelowna, where he and Mr. Tremblay reviewed it.  Mr. Robnik stated that they 
identified some outages and inc onsistencies in deposit statements. 
[34] Mr. Robnik stated that, be fore March 2008, when he was promoted to district 
manager, he and Ms. Tyler were on the “sam e level”, and she had of ten confided in him 
regarding non-work-related topi cs.  They spoke “on a frie nd level” about everything.  
They often text-messaged each other back a nd forth about what they were doing in the 
evening. 
[35] In cross-examination, Ms. Tyler asked several times about Mr. Robnik’s questions 
regarding her personal life.  He agreed that he had aske d her about her personal life 
because he noticed a change in her mood; she seemed “dow n and unhappy”.  He testified 
that asking Ms. Tyler about her personal rela tionship was his appro ach to determining 
what was bothering her because an employee’ s personal problems can affect their work 
performance.  He agreed that Ms. Tyler had not requested his help regarding her personal 
life. 
[36] In his response to Ms. Tyler’s allegation that he offered her his hotel room key, 
Mr. Robnik wrote:   
2010 BCHRT 192 (CanLII)
6 ... one particular day, as a result of several back and forth jo kes in which she 
actively participated, I did laughingly o ffered [sic] Ms. Tyler my hotel room 
key.  However, at no time was I serious. 
[37] When Ms. Tyler questioned Mr. Robnik ab out this statement, he repeatedly 
denied that he had offered her his room car d, stating that he only showed her his room 
card when she asked where he was staying. 
[38] Mr. Tremblay testified that he was unaware of Ms. Tyler’s sexual harassment 
allegations against Mr. Robnik until he received the human rights complaint.  His evidence was that he did not recall any reference to such allegations during the conference call between himself, Mr. Butcher a nd Ms. Tyler.  He testified that Mobility 
was dissolved on February 19, 2009, and its la st day of business was August 31 of that 
year. 
4. Decision 
[39] For the following reasons, I find the complaint justified. 
5. Reasons 
[40] Section 13 of the Code  prohibits discrimination against a person regarding 
employment because of the sex of that person. 
[41] It is well-settled that sexual ha rassment is sex discrimination: Janzen v. Platy 
Enterprises Ltd ., [1989] 1 S.C.R. 1252.   The Court provided a non-exhaustive definition 
of sexual harassment: 
… sexual harassment in the workpl ace may be broadly defined as 
unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature th at detrimentally affects the work 
environment or leads to adverse job- related consequences for the victims 
of the harassment….  When sexual harassment occurs in the workplace, it is an abuse of both economic and se xual power.  Sexual harassment is a 
demeaning practice, one that constitu tes a profound affront to the dignity 
of the employees forced to endure it.  By requiring an employee to contend 
with unwelcome sexual actions or  explicit sexual demands, sexual 
harassment in the workplace attacks th e dignity and self-respect of the 
victim both as an employee and as a human being. (p. 26) 
[42] At page 23, the Court quoted Arjun P. Aggrawal, Sexual Harassment in the 
Workplace  (Toronto: Butterworth s, 1987) as follows: 
2010 BCHRT 192 (CanLII)
7 Sexual harassment is any sexually-ori ented practice that endangers an 
individual's continued employment, negatively affects his/her work 
performance, or undermines his/her se nse of personal dignity. Harassment 
behaviour may manifest itself blatantly  in forms such as leering, grabbing, 
and even sexual assault. Mo re subtle forms of sexua l harassment may include 
sexual innuendoes and propositions for dates or sexual favours. 
[43] The standard of proof for a complaint of  sexual harassment is the balance of 
probabilities. 
[44] The test for determining whether conduct is unwelcome is an objective one: 
taking into account all the circumstances, wo uld a reasonable person know that the 
conduct in question was not welcomed by th e complainant? A complainant is not 
required to expressly object to the conduct unless the respo ndent would reasonably have 
no reason to suspect th at it was unwelcome:  Mahmoodi v. University of British Columbia 
and Dutton  (No. 4) (1999), 36 C.H.R.R. D/8 (B.C.H.R.T.), para. 140. 
[45] Credibility is often a key issue in sexual harassment complaints.  In assessing the 
credibility of the witnesses and deciding what  weight to give to their evidence, I am 
mindful not only of such factors as a witness’ demeanour, powers of observation, 
opportunity for knowledge, relationship to the pa rties, judgment, memory, and ability to 
describe clearly what was seen  and heard, but also whether th e evidence of the witness is 
in “harmony with the preponderance of the pr obabilities which a practical and informed 
person would readily recognize as reasonable in  that place and in those conditions”:  
Faryna v. Chorny , [1952] 2 D.L.R. 354 (B .C.C.A.) at p. 357. 
[46] Ms. Tyler was emotional at the hearing, cr ying at times when testifying and also 
when asking questions in cross-examination.  She was self-represented.  While she had 
prepared questions for cross-examination, mo st of them were premised on obtaining a 
particular answer from Mr. Robnik.  As she did not obtain many of the answers she had 
anticipated, the questions had to be reframed.  Ms. Tyler found this difficult, and she 
became upset.  Mr. Robnik’s agent’s obvious amusement at her difficulty only worsened the situation. 
[47]  The evidence of both Ms. Tyler and Mr. Robnik was at odds with their written 
statements to the Tribunal.  As mentioned above, Ms. Tyler acknowledged that the dates 
in her complaint were incorre ct.  I do not, however, agree with Mr. Robnik’s suggestion 
2010 BCHRT 192 (CanLII)
8 that, because the dates were incorrect, it follows that she “made up” both the dates and 
the allegations.  The fact that her dates were incorrect is not determinative of the reliability of the substance of her allegatio ns.  I do not accept th e argument that she 
fabricated them. 
[48] In contrast, the variance between Mr. Robnik’s oral evidence and his written 
response to the Tribunal was substantive a nd, therefore, more troubling.  As set out 
above, he wrote in his response that he laughing ly offered Ms. Tyler his hotel room key.  
However, when asked about his written stat ement during cross-examination, he did not 
address it, saying repeatedly onl y that he did not offer Ms. Tyler his room key, and that 
he only showed it to her when she asked wher e he was staying.  He provided no further 
evidence about the nature of the back-and-f orth joking to which he referred in his 
response, and Ms. Tyler was not asked any questions in cross-ex amination about any 
joking between her and Mr. Robnik. 
[49] After considering the eviden ce on this point, I find that  Ms. Tyler’s testimony is 
more in harmony with the preponderance of pr obabilities.  Mr. Robnik has presented two 
contradictory versions of the exchange re garding his hotel room card, and offered no 
explanation.  I prefer Ms. Tyler’s evidence that Mr. Robnik offered her his hotel room 
key and that it was not a joke .  In my view, a reasonable person in Mr. Robnik’s position 
ought to have known that the conduct in questio n would not be welcomed by Ms. Tyler.  
It is difficult to imagine how Mr. Robnik, M obility’s district manager, offering his hotel 
room key to a subordinate female employ ee could be viewed as simply a joke. 
[50] Despite the fact that Mr. Robnik’s cell phone bill and ho tel charges for March did 
not indicate any evening telephone call to her,  Ms. Tyler did not waiver in her evidence 
that he telephoned her at home and asked her to come to his hotel room.  She was certain 
that the call was about 9:00 p.m. becau se she was putting her son to bed. 
[51] Mr. Robnik denied making such a call to Ms.  Tyler.  He relied on his hotel bill 
and a printout of his cell phone  charges, neither of which s howed a call to her number.  
However, in his final submissions, Mr. Robni k conceded that a lo cal telephone call from 
his hotel room would not appear on his hotel statement.  I also not e that the cell phone 
2010 BCHRT 192 (CanLII)
9 printouts which Mr. Robnik provided cover th e time period from Fe bruary 21-March 20. 
His hotel bill, however, indicates that  he did not check out until March 22. 
[52] On this point, I also prefer  the evidence of Ms. Tyler.  I find that Mr. Robnik did 
telephone Ms. Tyler and ask her to come to his hotel room. 
[53] In his oral evidence, Mr. Tyler denied t ouching Ms. Tyler’s leg.  He said that he 
may have bumped into her accidentally because  of the cramped work space.  He provided 
a picture of the behind-the-counter space, which does show a small work area. 
[54] Regarding his written statements in his response, Mr. Robnik’s oral evidence was 
that he remembered some bumping because of the cramped work space, but not any specific incidences.  I did not find this evidence convincing.  It  is at odds with his written 
response, in which he clearly states that he remembers bumping into Ms. Tyler when he came to the Store for training, and his statemen t:  “Ms. Tyler indica ted that I rubbed her 
leg while at work.  I recall that specific contact
 with Ms. Tyler’s leg.  It was completely 
accidental.” (my emphasis) 
[55] Unlike Ms. Tyler’s complaint, in which she erred with respect to the dates on 
which certain events occurred, it is the subs tance of Mr. Robnik’s written response which 
is problematic. 
[56] Mr. Robnik filed his response on January 9, 2009, almost ten months after his 
attendance at the Store in mid-March 2008.  If indeed the work space was so cramped 
that individuals bumping into each other was no t out of the ordinary, it does not seem to 
me to be in harmony with the prepondera nce of probabilities that Mr. Robnik would 
specifically remember these two incidents.   
[57] I find, on the balance of probabilities, that  these were not simply two incidences 
of accidental contact. 
[58] I have found that Mr. Robnik offered his hot el room key to Ms. Tyler, invited her 
to his hotel room, and non-accidentally made phys ical contact with her in the Store.  As 
these incidents are sufficient for me to conclude that the complaint is justified, and that 
Mr. Robnik sexually harassed Ms. Tyler rega rding her employment, contrary to s. 
13(1)(b) of the Code, I need not consider the remaining allegations. 
2010 BCHRT 192 (CanLII)
10 [59] While not argued during closing argume nts, Ms. Tyler suggested, through her 
questions, that Mr. Robnik raised the financ ial concerns because she had spoken to Mr. 
Butcher about the sexual harassment.  She did not, however, lead any evidence to support her belief. 
[60] It is not necessary for me to decide wh ether Ms. Tyler resigned or was dismissed 
as I find no nexus between the sexual hara ssment and the end of her employment.  
Therefore, I make no award for lost wages. 
6. Remedy 
[61] Section 37(1) requires that, when a member determines that a complaint is 
justified, the member must orde r the person who contravened the Code  to cease the 
contravention and to refrain from committing th e same or a similar contravention.  I so 
order. 
[62] Section 37(2)(d)(iii) author izes a Tribunal member to compensate an individual 
discriminated against an amount the member c onsiders appropriate for injury to dignity, 
feelings and self-respect. 
[63] While Ms. Tyler testified that the incide nces with Mr. Robnik were upsetting to 
her, she did not provide much evidence on this point. 
[64] It was clear that the manner in whic h her employment ended had a large 
emotional impact on her.  She felt that she was treated unfairly by Mobility because she 
was not contacted about its concerns regard ing financial irregula rities, or given the 
opportunity to speak to them.  She testified that she handed in  her key because, after what 
she was told about not going in to the Store, and not contac ting anyone at the Store, she 
felt she should not keep the keys, which were  the Store’s property.  She was extremely 
upset that Mobility decided that she had resigned her employment. 
[65] It is difficult to determine with any ex actness how much of Ms. Tyler’s upset was 
the result of her sexual harassment and how  much flowed from the circumstances 
surrounding the end of her employment.  Ho wever, after considering her evidence, I 
conclude that, while Mr. R obnik’s inappropriate behaviou r was upsetting to her, the 
situation at the end of her employ ment had a greater impact on her. 
2010 BCHRT 192 (CanLII)
11 [66] In these circumstances, I find that an award of $6500 is appropriate. 
7. Conclusion 
[67] I order the Respondents to cease the contravention and to refrain from committing 
the same or a similar contravention. 
[68] I order the Respondents to pay Ms. Tyler $6500 as compensation for injury to her 
dignity, feelings and self-respect.  The Res pondents are jointly a nd severally liable for 
this amount. 
  
 Barbara Humphreys, Tribunal Member
 
2010 BCHRT 192 (CanLII)